Table of Contents
Welcome	1
Student Well-Being	3
Educational Program	8
Student Life	19
Community Expectations/Standards	31
Contacts and Directories	47
Telephone:
Main Office	(603) 735-6000
Fax	(603) 735-6300
Office Hours:
Monday-Friday 8:00 AM - 4:00 PM

Please understand that no set of rules or guidelines can cover every conceivable situation that might arise at school. The rules, policies and procedures set forth in this Student Handbook are intended to apply under most circumstances. However, from time to time, there may be situations that require immediate or non- standard responses. Nothing in this handbook should be construed as a limitation on the authority of Proctor to deviate from the rules and procedures set forth herein, or to deal with individual circumstances as they arise in the manner deemed most appropriate by the school taking into consideration the best interests of the school, its students, faculty, employees, or overall school community. The policies may also be revised or updated periodically, even during the school year. You will be advised of any changes as they are made either electronically (email) or by mail. Any student or parent with a question about any handbook policy or statement should feel free to speak with the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability or the Assistant Head of School.


| A Note From the Head of School |
As you read this student handbook, I am asking you to do something that according to scientists only humans can do: accumulate culture, and build on it. There are no upper limits to what we learn and can do. What this means for you,
as you read this handbook, is that we as Proctor people uniquely are situated to pass on what has been learned and accomplished in past years and to make things better.
Whether you are returning to Proctor, or are entering your first year, choose to pass on the good of what you learn. Indeed, the seeds of this handbook began when the first student came to the school 175 years ago in 1848. If there is any obligation, and I believe there is, it is to make Proctor the kind of place that you would be proud of by building upon those successes and celebrating them with others.
Pay particular attention as you read to how we - all of us - decide to keep each other whole and safe this year. The Community Agreement will be what helps us do that. Every person had a part to play in surviving a global Pandemic, which as I write still has not abated in parts of this country and parts of the world, locations where you will play, travel, and learn as part of Proctor’s educational experience.
This accumulation of knowledge and culture means that we have a responsibility, a gift even, to use our knowledge, skills, and talents, as shapers and creators so that we can pass it on. The fact is we are builders of each other within every classroom, team meeting, dorm room, common area, bus ride, and ocean voyage. Instead of an assemblage of rules, this handbook is how we intend to take very good care of each other - and pass it on.
Brian Thomas
Head of School
| Proctor’s Mission Statement |
Motto: “Live to Learn, Learn to Live.”
Taking inspiration from our motto, Proctor Academy creates a diverse learning and living community: one that values the individual and recognizes the potential of each member to stretch beyond what had been thought possible.
Balancing academic rigor, structure, and support with the freedom for students to explore, create, and define themselves, Proctor encourages students to achieve their optimal growth. A deep commitment to a learning skills program and a strong emphasis on experiential learning are interwoven throughout Proctor’s academic, athletic, artistic, and environmentally conscious programs both on and off campus.
Proctor students graduate understanding the values of honesty, compassion, respect, and responsibility, proceeding with confidence and with strategies to become life-long learners and thoughtful contributors to their communities.
Profile of a Proctor Graduate
Proctor graduates are collaborative, ethical individuals, ready to contribute productively to their communities. Our diverse programs and experiential approach to education develop creative, resilient, and knowledgeable problem solvers who take responsibility for their own learning.
Core Values
Proctor’s Core Values of honesty, compassion, respect, and responsibility are the foundation of our community. It is around these values that our expectations and standards are framed in an effort to actively build the type of community we believe best supports student learning and development.
Proctor’s Equity and Belonging Mission
Mission: Proctor nurtures students to become positive change agents by intentionally designing programs and systems that unlock opportunities for individuals to understand and expand their identities within an interculturally competent and caring community. Further, Proctor cultivates and commits resources to ensure greater access and belonging to the Proctor experience for those farthest from opportunity.

Vision: We envision a caring & connected community where all students and adults feel a sense of belonging.
Proctor Environmental Mission
Proctor Academy’s Environmental Mission is to teach and practice sustainability throughout our school community. Sustainability is defined as “meeting present needs without compromising our ability to meet future needs.”

We strive to reach this goal by:
    • Attaining and sustaining a carbon-neutral footprint on campus.
    • Providing systems and services that encourage behavior, innovations, and technology that reduce our resource consumption.
    • Purchasing goods and services that are ecologically responsible.
    • Increasing organic, local, and healthy food choices each year.
    • Empowering members of the community to be active stewards for an equitable and ecologically healthy earth.
    • Exploring the social, ecological and economic problems that confront us all, as well as the means to address those challenges in both our campus and in our personal lives each day.
Role of the Advisor
We believe the effectiveness of Proctor’s educational model lies in the strong relationships formed between faculty and students.
It is through these relationships that a student’s ability to explore new passions, embrace new challenges, interact with people and become engaged citizens of the world is enhanced. We believe developing a sense of trust between faculty and students unlocks the door to student learning unlike any other factor in a student’s education.

As a student transitions to school, the role of the advisor can become the single most important relationship in guiding that student through their time at Proctor. It is the advisor who supports the student during their transition, serves as the primary contact for parents and student with all school-related issues, and acts as a mentor, advocate, and academic counselor. The advisor guides the student to discover new interests, while simultaneously holding the student accountable to community expectations and managing family expectations. Ultimately, it is the role of the advisor to develop a trusting relationship with each advisee that supports Proctor’s core values of honesty, compassion, respect, and responsibility.
Role of Parents and Guardians
Proctor believes that a positive, productive relationship between the school and a student’s parents or guardians is essential to supporting a student’s success. Open communication, mutual respect and shared vision all help create a healthy, productive experience for all, allowing Proctor to deliver on its mission. It is important that parents and guardians understand and support the school’s rules, policies, procedures, and culture. There will be times when parents and guardians may not always agree with a decision of the school, but the school must make decisions that serve the best interest of the community at large. The school may dismiss a student or decline to offer re-enrollment when one or both parents have acted in such a way as to seriously interfere with the school’s accomplishment of its educational purpose or mission, or the parent(s) failed to work in a positive and constructive manner with the school. Parents and guardians are asked to support their children in understanding the importance of this Student Handbook, including school attendance and all school rules.
| Student Well-Being |
Proctor’s Community Agreement
The Proctor community (all employees, students, and parents) must embrace the shared responsibility necessary to keep our school and local community healthy. Active participation in all elements of Proctor’s policies and procedures are essential to being a part of the on- and off-campus Proctor Academy community. Each individual will agree to the following:
Community Agreement for Proctor Academy*
2023-2024 School Year

    1. I understand taking responsibility for my own health through my actions is paramount to keeping the Proctor community safe. In doing so, I agree to take part in Proctor’s health and safety protocols.

    2. I agree to follow the Visitor Policy when having guests on-campus, including parent visitation, and agree to follow weekend travel guidelines for boarding students per Proctor’s Student Handbook.

    3. I understand as a boarding student, day student, or employee, I must be conscious of social interactions outside of the Proctor community while school is in session and agree to follow Proctor’s return-to-campus protocols when applicable.

*All of these agreements are subject to change based on guidelines from the NH Department of Health and the CDC. Should a community member be unable, or unwilling, to follow this Community Agreement, they will be asked to step away from the Proctor community in order to ensure the health of the greater Proctor community
Proctor’s Gender Support Plan:
Exploring sexual and gender identity is a normal part of development for children and teens. Sexual orientation and gender identity develop in varying ways for different people. The process through which people identify, acknowledge, and decide to share information about their sexual orientation and/or gender identity with others is an individual one. At Proctor Academy, we believe that every community member deserves to feel comfortable to be their true self. We are committed to honoring the rights of every student and providing options and support regarding each student’s gender and sexual identity. We believe that the process of coming out within a safe, inclusive community can be a positive experience and result in a sense of belonging.

Proctor Academy’s Gender/Sexuality Support Plan (GSSP) provides students the opportunity to understand their rights and options as well as identify their individual preferences for support. Students choose to work with a trusted adult or advocate to personalize the options and resources available to them on and off campus according to the gender/sexuality pre-plan.
The following is a menu of rights, options, and supports. These lists are not intended to be comprehensive and can be altered and expanded at any time.

You have the right to:
    • Be referred to by your preferred pronouns.
    • Be referred to by your name of choice.
    • Express your gender and sexuality.
    • Feel safe, comfortable, and included in all aspects of school life.
    • Access healthcare that respects your whole being, including, but not limited to, gender identity/expression, sexual orientation, and mental, physical, and emotional health.
    • Confidentiality within the bounds of the law.
    • Make your own decisions about your gender support plan.
    • Be respected and honored.
    • Reevaluate your individual plan at any time.

You have the option to:
    • Choose your photo and name displayed in MyProctor.
    • Change your Proctor ID.
    • Be assigned a new email address to reflect name changes.
    • Change your class/athletic rosters, transcripts, databases.
    • Receive help navigating the college admittance process.
    • Explore residential/housing options.
    • Disclose your identity with friends and/or family.
    • Try out for the sports team that aligns with your gender.
    • Use facilities that align with your gender.

The following supports are available on-campus:
    • Individualized gender/sexuality support plan
    • Safe spaces and facilities
    • Counseling
    • Mentors
    • Affinity Groups
    • Education
    • Appropriate responses to policy violations
    • Group sessions
    • Ongoing care and support, check-ins, and monitoring/reevaluating support plan

The following supports are available on Proctor’s off-campus programs:
    • Travel arrangements
    • Access to healthcare
    • Counseling
    • Affinity Groups
    • Other resources, as needed



Students may arrange extra-help sessions during Study Hall by notifying the dorm parent prior to Study Hall and by then bringing a signed note to the dorm parent upon their return. Group study should take place before the start of Study Hall or in the follow- ing approved locations: Common Rooms with dorm parent approval and the conference room in the library (sign-up required).
Electronic devices (computers, iPads, phones) are to be used for academic purposes only during Study Hall. Inappropriate electronic device use during Study Hall may result in the confiscation of the device(s) for the remainder of Study Hall.
Lovejoy Library
One of the most open and freely accessible spaces on campus, the Lovejoy Library provides an arena for individual and group study, research, reflection and peer tutoring. In the library, students and faculty access a broad scope of ideas and resources to explore academic and personal interests. The Lovejoy Library supports the learning needs of the Proctor community with a diverse online and print collection, a knowledgeable staff, and a flexible learning environment.

With library support of research methods, all are encouraged to explore, problem solve, evaluate, reflect and share their learning in preparation for the world ahead of them. To foster the community’s interest in reading and cultural exploration, the library maintains a fiction collection, sponsors book discussions and a variety of additional programming. The rotating exhibit of original artwork inspires contemplation of the arts as well as significant issues and ideas that help connect Proctor’s values and curriculum. Correlating library materials are displayed and available to support further investigation around the themes of the exhibits.

Library help is available virtually or in-person via Email, Webex or Drop-in for assistance with projects, sources, citations, etc.
Academic Technology
Proctor will supply all incoming students with a school Apple ID for school-issued ebooks and apps. Students are required to supply an Apple laptop, and It is optional for students to bring an iPad with Apple Pencil and a case for Math and Science classes. Proctor also recommends that parents purchase a 3 year or 4 year Apple+ AppleCare+ Warranty with any new Apple products.

For Laptops, Proctor recommends the new M1 or M2 MacBook Air or MacBook Pro; adequate laptop devices include any 2016 or newer MacBook Air, MacBook, or MacBook Pro.

Adequate iPad devices must support the Apple Pencil or Logitech Crayon. These include the 9.7 inch iPad 6th Gen, 2018 or newer, 32 GB or 128 GB, 10.5 inch iPad Pro, 2017 or newer, a 12.9 inch iPad Pro, Gen 1, 2017 or newer, or iPad Air 4th Gen.
Technology Guidelines and Technology Use Contract
The Technology Use Contract, which must be signed by students and parents or guardians, outlines what users may and may not do with their personal devices and/or technology resources provided by the school. The guidelines established by the Technology Use Contract are an extension of the school’s core values: honesty, compassion, respect, and responsibility. Behavior that breaches the Technology Use Contract may result in a Major Violation.

Digital devices (cell phones, headphones, tablets, and laptops) should not be used in the Dining Commons during meals or in the Norris Family Theater when the school gathers for meetings or performances.
Information Technology Services
The Information Technology Services staff manages the school’s technology resources and provides support services including:
    • Apple Certified repair for mobile devices, laptops, and desktops, troubleshooting issues related to printing, software, Google Docs, Gmail, myProctor, Internet connection, and Student IDs for Dorm access and printing.
    • Issued audio/visual equipment for projects iPads, iPhones, laptops, and desktop computers under warranty are serviced on-site by the school’s Certified Apple Technician or shipped to an Apple repair center. Devices that are out of warranty are serviced on site for $50/hr plus the cost of replacement parts. Information Technology Services provides “loaner iPads or Laptops” for repairs requiring more than two hours.
Off-Campus Programs
Proctor is widely recognized for national leadership in experiential education; our off-campus programs are core to that distinction. To our community, off-campus programs are not separate, but integral to the Proctor experience, providing hands-on learning opportunities that allow students to truly connect to the content they are studying. More than 70% of students take part in Proctor’s term-long off-campus programs.

Experiencing different needs and understanding the complexity of global inter-connectedness prepares Proctor students to participate in and understand a layered and shifting world. Proctor’s off-campus trimesters are covered by tuition for all boarding students including those students receiving financial assistance. However, students and families are responsible for all deposits, transportation expenses, spending money and other incidental costs related to their off-campus term.
Off-Campus Program Descriptions
European Art Classroom | Offered Fall, Winter, and Spring Terms
The European Art Classroom program is based in Aix-en-Provence, located near the Mediterranean coast of France. The term’s fundamental objectives are for students to immerse themselves in the study of fine arts, to create their own body of artwork, to study the French language, and to become skilled travelers. Students live with Proctor’s two resident directors in a house / dormitory in the countryside just outside of Aix, where the goal is to create an artist colony. Each student is immersed in the visual arts with a heavy emphasis on oil painting and drawing. The student learns to cook, helps with daily chores and takes art history, European literature, and French classes. The cadence of the academic routine rotates between two weeks spent in Aix-en-Provence, followed by a week
of travel to various destinations in Europe. While there is no language prerequisite for participation in this program, students study French at their individual level, from beginning to advanced, ensuring that they hone their practical language skills.
Students earn credit for the following courses while studying on European Art Classroom:
    • European History (1 History credit)
    • European Literature (1 English credit)
    • French Language (1 World Language credit)
    • European Art I: Studio Art Emphasis (1 Art credit)
    • European Art II: Sketchbook (1 Art credit)
    • European Living Skills (1 Skills credit)
Mountain Classroom | Offered Winter and Spring Terms
Since 1972, Mountain Classroom has stood as a cornerstone of Proctor Academy’s commitment to experiential learning. During the winter and spring terms, ten students and two experienced instructors embark on a ten week exploration of the American West, gaining first-hand experience from local activists and guest speakers. Combining outdoor education and academic inquiry, Mountain Classroom students examine the complex and intricate connections between nature and culture. The curriculum centers around the history, literature, and environmental sciences of the areas to be visited in the field as well as the expedition skills necessary for the field component. All classes are taught by the two Mountain Classroom instructors who are provided with logistical support from the Mountain Classroom program director.

Students earn credit for the following courses while studying on Mountain Classroom:
    • Ecological Literature and Writing (1 English credit)
    • Western American Issues (1 History credit)
    • Nature and Culture (1 Science credit)
    • Expedition Skills (1 Skills credit)
    • Group Dynamics (1 Skills credit)

Ocean Classroom | Offered Fall Term
Since 1994, Proctor has offered more than 400 students the opportunity to board a traditional schooner and voyage along the eastern sea- board of the United States and into Caribbean waters. Students are not just passengers studying marine science, maritime literature, history and navigation during their term on Ocean Classroom, but are active crew members as well. From the first moment students step foot on the vessel, they are divided into “watches”, the core working group on any ocean-going vessel, answering directly to their professional watch officers. After ten weeks studying and working aboard this vessel students are transformed learners and experienced sailors.

Students earn credit for the following courses while studying on Ocean Classroom:
    • Marine Science (1 Science credit)
    • Maritime Literature (1 English credit)
    • Maritime History (1 History credit)
    • Navigation and Applied Mathematics (1 Math credit)
    • Seamanship Skills (1 Skills credit)

Proctor en Costa Rica | Offered Winter and Spring Terms
Proctor en Costa Rica operates in partnership with the Cloud Forest School in Monteverde, Costa Rica. Situated at approximately 5,000 feet above sea level, the ecologically diverse area attracts scientists, educators, writers, and artists from around the world. This program is attrac- tive to Proctor students who desire to have a rigorous cultural and language immersion experience in a Spanish-speaking Central American country that encourages sustainable agricultural practices. Over the course of a ten-week term, Proctor sophomores will earn a full year of Spanish credit while fulfilling their other academic requirements (since the courses are taught in English). Advisors, the Cloud Forest School and Proctor will work together to ensure a cohesive academic transition between the two schools.

While studying in Costa Rica, students are able to continue with their current sophomore year academic courses. (Students can remain in their regular Proctor classes since courses are taught in English.) Advisors, the Cloud Forest School and Proctor will work together to ensure a cohesive academic transition between the two schools.
Students earn credit for the following courses while studying in Costa Rica:
    • US History (1 credit)
    • Math (1 credit Geometry, Algebra 2, etc.)
    • Spanish Language (3 Language Credits = 1 Full Year)
    • Home-stay and traveling (1 Skills credit)
    • Science (1 credit)
    • English (1 credit)
Proctor en Segovia | Offered Fall, Winter, and Spring Terms
Since 1974, ten students each term have had the opportunity to live with a Spanish host family while studying Spanish language, literature and history in the ancient Roman city of Segovia, Spain for nine weeks. Through complete language and cultural immersion, Proctor’s teaching faculty in Segovia combine classroom instruction with weekly excursions, both locally and throughout Spain’s diverse regions, in order to craft a uniquely challenging, and equally rewarding experience for ten students each term.

In addition to fifteen hours per week of language instruction and experiential activities taught by native speakers, additional courses in Literature and History/Civilization are taught in English by Proctor’s resident directors—a total of twenty-five hours of classes per week. Each student lives with a host family, in which Spanish is spoken at all times.

While studying on Proctor en Segovia, students earn the following academic credits:
    • Spanish Language (3 Language credits = 1 Full Year)
    • History of Spain (1 History credit)
    • Literature (1 English credit)
    • Home-stay and traveling (1 Skills credit)
    • Physical Education, Theater, and Art activities
    • 
Off-Campus Sign Up Procedures and Priority
With more than 70% of Proctor students spending at least one term in an off-campus program, the demand for off-campus programs is high. Interested students must consider their four-year plans, including academic and extracurricular interests, and confirm with advisors the program fits their needs and interests. Due to high demand and limited spaces each term, off-campus program sign-ups, lists, and priorities are conducted using the following guidelines:
    • Students currently enrolled as freshmen, sophomores and juniors submit applications for off-campus programs by mid-December for the following academic year.
    • Program directors gather completed applications and create priority lists based on the following criteria:
        ◦ Graduation year
        ◦ Years at Proctor
        ◦ Participation in other off-campus programs during junior and senior years
        ◦ Academic, social, and wellness standing
        ◦ Completion of off-campus program prerequisites
    • Off-Campus program lists for the next academic year are released in January.
    • Preference for spaces in the off-campus programs may occasionally be given to boarding students for campus housing reasons. In rare situations, a day student may be asked to participate in a different term.
Additional Fees for Off-Campus Programs (Day Students)
It is Proctor’s goal to provide students equal access to programs offered by the school. However, the operational costs of Proctor’s off-campus programs are offset by boarding school tuition, whereas they are not covered by the day student tuition. Therefore, it is
necessary for Proctor to assess an additional fee to all day students who choose to participate in European Art Classroom, Mountain Classroom, Ocean Classroom, Proctor en Costa Rica or Proctor en Segovia.
Day students wishing to participate in an off-campus program are responsible for the difference between the boarding and day tuition for one term. The fee for the 2023-2024 academic year is $9,500. The family is also responsible for all deposits, transportation expenses, spending money, other costs associated with a program.

Need-based financial assistance is available, on a limited basis, to help defray the cost of off-campus programs for day students already receiving financial aid. Please contact the Director of Financial Aid for additional information.
Discipline and Off-Campus Programs
When a violation of school rules occurs on an off-campus program, the specific off-campus program manual procedures for handling that discipline situation take precedent over the on-campus response to the violation. If a Major Violation occurs on an off-campus program, the student will be asked to leave the program. The processing of the Major Violation will take place once the student is back on campus with the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability. If the student is more than two weeks into the academic term, successful return to on-campus academics may not be a viable option and the student may be asked to spend the remainder of the term at home before re-entering the school community at the start of the next term.
Summer Service Trips
These two-week trips are a focused, rich opportunity for students to engage in cultural immersion and the principles of community building. Led by Proctor faculty members, groups range from 7-14 participants. Although shorter than the typical term-long Off-Campus Proctor programs, these dynamic trips offer students a vehicle to engage in experiential learning from a community service perspective. Trips are scheduled for June or July and are fee-based. Limited financial aid is available.

Afternoon Activities and Athletics Program
Athletic Mission Statement
Proctor’s athletic program encourages participants to practice the school’s core values by demonstrating sportsmanship while striving to attain competitive excellence. Varied offerings provide growth-promoting experiences, preparing participants for success as they develop competencies through collaboration with others to achieve personal and group goals. Proctor promotes athletic achievement commensurate and in balance with the success of all of the school’s programs.

Overview of Student Health Services
Proctor strives to provide an environment in which students are able to maintain a healthy lifestyle by providing health services in an open and supportive environment. Proctor takes a multidisciplinary approach to health and wellness by employing a Medical Director, Registered Nurses, Athletic Trainers, two full-time Mental Health Counselors and utilizes the services of New London Hospital, an affiliate of Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center. The Proctor Health Center is a five- bed facility licensed by the State of New Hampshire. The Health Center is supervised by our Medical Director, and is staffed by a registered nurse twenty-four hours per day, seven days per week, while school is in session.

Students who are too ill to attend classes or extracurricular engagements must report to the Health Center. If in the judgment of the nurse on duty they are too ill or contagious to participate in school commitments they must remain at the Health Center, if possible. Day students must have their parents call the Health Center if the student is to be absent or tardy from school because of illness or medical appointments.

While we strongly encourage students to complete routine health care while at home, we understand that this is not always possible. Therefore, orthodontic, dental, ophthalmological, physical therapy, chiropractic and other services can be arranged upon request through the Health Center. School-approved drivers transport students who require medical services off campus, and the charges for transportation are billed home. Every effort is made for appointments to happen outside of the academic day, but this is not always possible. It is the student’s responsibility to make up any missed work due to medical appointments.
Health Insurance and Costs
Proctor students are required to carry comprehensive medical insurance. It is important to realize that parents/guardians, or their insurance company, are responsible for the costs of all medical or behavioral health services not provided by the school. Parents should review their health insurance policies to ensure appropriate coverage. Student insurance is available to International students from an independent agency and may be purchased through the Health Center. Domestic boarding students will be provided a Major Accident insurance plan at no cost to the family if their primary medical insurance does not cover their child while out of state. To ensure proper billing, a copy of the student’s current health insurance card must be maintained in the Health Center and through Magnus Health. Although the Health Center will forward a copy of your insurance card to medical providers, it
is ultimately the responsibility of parents to notify their insurance company to ensure pre-approval of medical and mental health appointments. Please note that out of state Medicaid is not valid in New Hampshire.
Magnus Health
Proctor manages all student medical information through an online database service, Magnus Health SMR (Student Medical Record). This web-based system provides continuous access to each student’s health record, as well as the ability to make updates throughout the year. This system is highly secure, is HIPAA compliant, and is accessible through the Proctor student portal. Parents and guardians are asked to update Magnus Health Records and notify the Health Center when changes in health status occur. All forms should be submitted directly to Magnus Health via fax, mail, or uploading them directly to the site. No forms should be submitted directly to the Health Center.
Preventative Medicine and Immunizations
Each student is required to arrive at school with a completed annual physical exam including immunization records and updated health forms uploaded online or sent directly to Magnus Health. Students may not participate in school-related activities, including athletics, without being fully compliant with this request.

Proctor requires that all students be fully immunized against tetanus, polio, mumps, rubella, measles, diphtheria, chickenpox, COVID-19, and hepatitis B unless the School is provided with a notarized medical or religious exemption. In addition, Proctor strongly encourages all students to receive an annual influenza vaccine. Proctor holds an influenza vaccination clinic each fall on campus and all students, faculty and staff have access to an up-to-date vaccination. Proctor will follow the CDC’s guidance on recommended vaccinations for students. Note: Some programs, including term-long off-campus programs and international travel programs, may require additional vaccinations in order to ensure these programs operate as seamlessly as possible. Please contact Proctor’s Health Center (603-735-6737 or healthcenter@proctoracademy.org) for additional information.
Medication Policy
All medications, including over-the-counter medications, can be harmful or ineffective if not managed safely and accurately. To that end, Proctor’s policies are designed to protect student safety and optimize the benefits of medications and overall student health. Any controlled substance or prescribed medication, such as stimulant medication for ADHD, psychotropic, and narcotic medications must always be kept in, and dispensed from, the Health Center.

Students may not be in possession of any controlled medication. All controlled medication must be delivered to the Health Center by a parent, guardian or authorized adult or mailed to the Health Center. Students under the age of 18 may not transport controlled medications to and from campus without the written consent of their parent/guardian.

While students are allowed to keep small amounts of over the counter medications in their rooms (pain relievers, allergy medication, etc.) we encourage students to visit the Health Center so these medications and the health of the student can be properly monitored. If parents or guardians do not wish their child to access such remedies, the Health Center must be notified in writing. Students are expected to take responsibility for their own health. To that end, the Health Center and advisor are not responsible for finding students and reminding them to take daily medications. A Medication Compliance report is delivered weekly through Proctor’s electronic communication system. Students, parents, advisors, dorm parents, coaches and learning specialists are notified through this system and will encourage students to follow through with medication compliance.
Health Information Privacy and Reporting
Parents and students agree, as a condition of enrollment at Proctor, to consent to the release of any of the student’s health related information, including information relating to drug treatment, testing, medical, and mental health records, to employees or agents of Proctor Academy, as determined by the Head of School or their designee, to meet the medical or safety needs of the student and the community or the legal responsibilities of Proctor. In addition, as a condition of continued enrollment, students and/or parent/ guardians agree that when any student turns 18 (while a student is enrolled at the school), the school shall have the right to communicate with their parent/guardian regarding any matter whatsoever regarding the student, including, but not limited to, academics, discipline, medical, mental health, social or education matters; or any issue whatsoever that the school wants to communicate with the parent/ guardian concerning the activities or best interests of the student or the greater school community.

Proctor will maintain appropriate administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect the security of all health-related information within its care or custody. While it is the obligation of Proctor to safeguard student medical information, we must also balance matters of privacy and confidentiality with safeguarding the interests and well-being of our students and our community. Thus, parents and guardians and students consent to allow employees and agents of Proctor who have a need to know medical and/ or psychological information necessary to serve the best interests of the student and/or the community. In the event of a disclosure required by law, every effort will be made to notify the student and/or parents and guardians in advance.
Counseling Services
Proctor contracts two full-time mental health counselors who are available twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week to provide coverage to support students in need. Individual counseling is available to students either on campus or through referral to outside providers. Referrals may be made through faculty, staff, Health Center professionals, parents, and self-referral. Frequent communication between parents and guardians and our mental health personnel is standard practice.

In addition, Proctor makes available the services of a substance abuse counselor when students’ lives are affected by the use of alcohol and/or drugs. The Health Center also coordinates services with consulting psychiatrists when psychotropic medications are necessary, when a student needs longer term support, or if the student wishes to work with a different professional.

There are times when the mental health support that Proctor Academy can offer is not enough to meet the needs of the student or when the school deems that a student’s safety is in question. In these instances, the student, the family, and the school must
consider a leave of absence to access a higher level of support. These behaviors may include, but are not limited to, self-harm, eating disorders, suicidal ideation, or disordered thinking. Situations that place the student or others in the community at risk will be ad- dressed immediately. The decision regarding these matters will be made by Administrators who have consulted with faculty relevant to the student.
Medical Leave
Proctor is committed to supporting the overall health and wellness of its students. There are times when a student must miss school due to illness, and teachers, advisors and others will work with students to make up missing work. Students must communicate with teachers and utilize resources available to them, including portal and electronic assessments, while they are away from school.

There are times when a student may be required to take a long term medical leave for a medical, emotional, or psychological condition that cannot be addressed at the school, or if the student’s physical or mental health is at risk. A team including members of the Health Center, the school’s mental health professionals and Administration will work closely with a student and parent/guardian to create a plan for separation and possible return to the Proctor community. In these cases, families must check out and return to campus through the Health Center, providing documentation to the school from the student’s doctor or mental health professional stating the student’s physical and mental well-being are appropriate for their return to campus. The school maintains the right to refuse a student’s return to school based upon up-to-date medical, health, or psychological reports from licensed professionals.

The Dean of Teaching and Learning and advisor will work closely with the student whenever possible to maintain their academic standing. However, sometimes it is not possible and students must make up lost academic credits. These situations are managed on a case-by-case basis. See Class Attendance and Completion of Trimester Credits section under Academic Program for additional information.
Voluntary Drug Testing
With the goal of providing a productive learning and living environment and enabling healthy choices surrounding substance, Proctor offers substance support in the form of a voluntary “No-Use” contract. This can be initiated by the student, a parent or guardian, advisor, member of the Health Center or school’s mental health professional. This non-disciplinary “No-Use Agreement” is signed by the student, parent/guardian, advisor, and Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability and authorizes random urinalysis tests for the student. Meetings with the school’s mental health professionals may also be suggested as part of supporting a student who is undergoing voluntary random substance testing.
Concussion Protocol
Proctor’s Athletic Training Office, in conjunction with the Health Center, works closely with students who are experiencing concussive symptoms. Proctor maintains very clear protocols for return to play or activity after a head injury, which can be found under the Athletics section of our website under “Athlete Performance”. Questions can be answered by referencing this document.
Sexual Health
Proctor Academy does not condone intimate sexual activity. However, we are aware that students will make their own decisions about sexual intimacy. Reproductive healthcare for students is accessible through the Health Center. The Health Center staff provides counseling and information about all options and choices regarding reproductive health care and prevention of sexually transmitted diseases. Students are encouraged to discuss their choices with their parents. Referrals to medical offices or Family Planning clinics outside of Proctor Academy are made for those who seek services. Students may also access them independently. Condoms are available in the Health Center for prevention of pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases.

Academic Honesty
The creation of original work is an important part of the learning process at Proctor. As students develop their own writing style and develop original thoughts, they will undoubtedly reference other people’s work. When referencing others’ work, students must take particular care to not copy and paste ideas into their work and must be sure to cite and document sources properly. Plagiarism, whether intentional or unintentional, is the act of taking someone else’s writing, words, sounds, images, or ideas, and presenting them as one’s own. When citing works, students are responsible for following current guide- lines for citations and should seek the help of teachers and the librarians to ensure proper citation format. Course work submitted for a grade may not be presented in another course for credit, and such a violation is also considered plagiarism.

Generative and Artificial Intelligence Policy
Artificial intelligence-based tools (ChatGPT, Grammarly, QuillBot, etc…) have made it possible for students to submit written work that is not copied from another source and that is not their own writing or their own thinking. Students must be clear with faculty about the tools they are using to write. Work generated by Artificial Intelligence that is submitted as a student’s own work will be considered plagiarism and a possible Honor Code Violation.


Proctor Academy Health Center follows New Hampshire mandatory reporting laws including, but not limited to, communicable diseases, child abuse or neglect, sexual abuse, and criminal acts that occur in a safe school zone.
ADA
Proctor is committed to a diverse community, which includes qualified students with documented disabilities and other health issues that may require reasonable accommodations to ensure access to education, housing, and recreation. Although Proctor cannot offer special education programs for students with disabilities, the school is committed to providing reasonable accommodations to qualified students so that such students can participate in the school’s programs.

Federal and state laws prohibit discrimination against qualified students with disabilities. For these purposes, a ‘qualified student with a disability’ is defined as an individual with a disability who is able to meet and fulfill the fundamental requirements of the school’s education, with or without reasonable modifications to the school’s policies or the provision of auxiliary aid or services. To request an accommodation for a disability, students and parents/guardians should contact their student’s advisor.

| Educational Program |
Proctor’s educational program spans our academic, off-campus, afternoon activity, athletic, community, and environmental stewardship programs. Through these educational programs, Proctor seeks to develop students who exemplify the Profile of a Proctor Graduate.
Academic Program
Proctor’s unique academic curriculum is founded in the belief that academic challenge, overt support systems, and a preference for hands-on, experiential modes of teaching creates an optimal learning environment for students. We believe Proctor’s ability to grow around each student’s academic interests develops well-rounded, engaged citizens.

With over 135 academic courses, 30 art electives, and five term-long off-campus programs to choose from, the possible ways a student’s Proctor journey can unfold is staggering. Because of the breadth of academic offerings, the importance of academic planning is elevated at Proctor as advisors actively guide each student through an academic planning exercise on a semi-annual basis. This academic planning process is critical to each student fully accessing experiences available at Proctor.
Remote Learning at Proctor
The relationships we form with our students are the most valuable component of our educational model. These relationships, built best through face-to-face instruction, allow us to push students far beyond what they believe themselves to be capable of. While we will continue to support students who miss classes due to Proctor-sanctioned travel or departures from campus for medical/personal reasons through asynchronous remote learning, we expect students to be on-campus for face-to-face instruction when we are in session and do not plan to support synchronous remote learning during the 2023-2024 school year.

Temporary Absences From School
Sometimes unforeseen or special circumstances require Parents/guardians to excuse their child from school. These may include family obligations, religious observances, medical consultations, or personal commitments. Since nothing can substitute for valuable class time, we ask parents and guardians to plan within the Proctor school calendar whenever possible. In order for a student to be released from their school commitments students must submit a Gone From School Pass through Orah. The GFS Pass requires signatures from academic teachers, advisor, dorm parent and coach. Parents and guardians must endorse this pass in Orah acknowledging the student’s travel plans. Students missing more than 3 academic days will require further approval from the Dean of Teaching and Learning. If a student’s plan changes while away from school we ask that parents and guardians communicate with the school’s main office.
College Visit Absences From School
Juniors and seniors often make college visits throughout the course of the year. These visits are an important part of the college admission process, however, students must complete a Gone from School Orah Pass prior to departing campus. The GFS Pass must be signed by the student’s academic teachers, advisor, dorm parent, coaches, and College Counselor at least 24 hours prior to a student departing campus. When possible, students should plan college visits over school vacations or long weekends in order to miss as little academic coursework at Proctor as possible. Students and parents and guardians should refer to the College Counseling Handbook for further details on college visits. Students missing more than 3 academic days will require additional permissions from the Dean of Teaching and Learning.
Special School Day Attendance Expectations
Proctor’s academic schedule often overlaps with federal holidays. Regardless, students are required to attend all school related commitments. Proctor asks families to support our educational mission by not requesting special accommodations to miss school related activities. Attendance points are in effect for all school-related activities, even if it is a non-traditional academic day.
Academic Credit for Students on Medical Leave
If a student is separated from Proctor for an extended period of time (either through a Medical Leave or other leave) missing at least four weeks (40% of the class blocks in a term), the student will most likely not be able to earn academic credit for the term.
Completion of Trimester Academic Credit for Dismissed Students
In some situations, students who are dismissed from Proctor may be able to earn academic credit for the remainder of the term with successful completion of academic work with a tutor at home. This decision is made by the Dean of Teaching and Learning and Head of School and is contingent on many factors, including the timing of the dismissal.
Summer Study For Credit
A student can acquire credit through academic work completed during the summer in two ways:

    1. Attending an accredited summer school program - All courses must receive prior approval from the appropriate Academic Department Head and the Dean of Teaching and Learning. A course syllabus or other comparable documents must be readily available for Proctor review.
    2. Arranging for Proctor’s tutorial program following guidelines established by the respective departments. This option is best for students who plan to complete just one trimester of a course and is available for mathematics, languages, and U.S. History. These grades are Pass/Fail.

The deadline for summer study applications is early May. Students should contact the respective Department Head if they wish to study in the summer for credit.

Summer school credits are listed separately on the transcript and do not replace a grade previously received in a similar course. Students hoping to enter an honors section after a summer school course are required to take the comparable Proctor examination to demonstrate proficiency.

All summer work must be completed before the first day of classes in the Fall Term.

Honor Code Violations
When a situation is deemed to be a breach of academic honesty, an Honor Code Violation is issued to the student(s) involved. A first Honor Code Violation places a formal letter from the Dean of Teaching and Learning in the student’s file in the Academic Office and the student will be asked to re-do the work in order to receive some credit on the assignment and demonstrate enough understanding to earn credit in the course. Most colleges and universities require students to notify them of any Honor Code Violations that occur during a student’s junior or senior year. A student who receives a second Honor Code Violation will meet with the discipline committee and could result in dismissal from school.
Network of Complementary Schools
Proctor Students in good standing may apply to visit one of dozens of partner high schools throughout the United States. Whether diving into a particular subject area or simply traveling to a new location to experience a homestay, these week-long explorations allow students to move off campus while maintaining their Proctor term activities. Generally scheduled with Project Period in March, interested students should reach out to their advisor during Fall Term to explore the possibilities. Learn more at the Lovejoy Library.
Graduation Requirements
To earn a diploma from Proctor Academy, a student must be enrolled in at least four level I courses per term. If a student wishes to take two study blocks or take fewer than five courses during any given term they can do so only with permission from parent/
guardians, advisor, learning specialist and Dean of Teaching and Learning. Any student wishing to take six Level I courses needs the permission of the Dean of Teaching and Learning.
To earn a diploma from Proctor Academy you must earn a minimum of 48 credits. Distribution requirements include:
    • Arts — 3 credits
    • English — 12 credits (Must enroll in an English course every term).
    • Mathematics — 9 credits (Through Algebra II).
    • Science — 9 credits (Including one year of Biology).
    • History — 8 credits (Including one year of U.S. History).
    • World Language — 6 high school credits (In the same spoken language).
    • World Language — 6 credits (Through level II in the same spoken language).
    • Programming - 1 credit
Other graduation requirements include:
    • The student is a senior and has spent four years in high school.
    • All required Skills courses have a passing grade.
    • Successful completion of Wilderness Orientation.
    • Successful completion of Project Period each year.
    • Successful completion of Senior Project (if applicable).

Failure of a course must be resolved with the Dean of Teaching and Learning.
*Beginning with the class of 2023, all students must complete one academic course (either Level I or Level II) that satisfies the programming require- ment. Class offerings are subject to change, but will be offered in various disciplines. Existing students that have satisfied their technology credit will be exempt from completing a programming credit.
Early Graduation
Under certain circumstances, Proctor will grant a student who has completed all graduation requirements the ability to leave school before graduation to pursue unique academic or service-based opportunities not available at Proctor. Past examples have included NOLS semester courses, apprenticeships, or educational research opportunities. Proctor does not support early graduation solely for athletic pursuits already provided by the school like early (non-academic) college enrollment for a sport, junior hockey, club lacrosse or basketball, and ski racing.

Students asking to leave school prior to graduation must make their request by the end of the fall term and must provide official docu- mentation from the program/organization they will be working with that clearly describes the program.

Students granted the opportunity to leave Proctor prior to graduation may ask for permission to attend Proctor’s commencement exercises. During their time away from Proctor, the student must follow Proctor’s community standards and codes of conduct as stated in the Proctor Student Handbook. Any violation of these standards will be reviewed and may result in the loss of the opportunity to attend commencement exercises.
Wilderness Orientation
More than a physical place, Proctor is a set of beneficial relationships. This human definition of community is introduced to all new students on a five-day backpacking hike in the White Mountains of New Hampshire. Eight students and two teachers conquer mountain peaks, cook over open fires, sleep under tarps, and work together as a functioning group. Friendships forged on Wilderness Orientation may last a lifetime. All students are required to complete Wilderness Orientation unless special accommodations are made through the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability Office.
Project Period
The spring trimester begins with intensive, small-group activities that explore teachers’ passions. Students boil maple sap into syrup, make quilts, volunteer at local schools, bike on Cape Cod, practice martial arts, teach skiing to handicapped children, or dog sled through northern Maine. Project Period is one of many examples of transformational experiential education at Proctor and therefore is viewed as a week’s worth of academic courses. Project Period must be completed each year a student is enrolled at Proctor. Participation in Project Period will be noted on the Proctor transcript with a Pass / Fail grade.

Students participating in a spring off campus program are exempt from this requirement for that year.

Senior Project
Senior Project provides seniors the opportunity to spend the final three and a half weeks of their Proctor careers completing an in-depth, hands-on experiential learning project. Applications for Senior Project take place during the Fall Term, and students are responsible for identifying both a project mentor and sponsor to work with them during their Senior Project. All projects culminate in individual exhibitions demonstrating student learning during the three-and-a-half-week project and are assessed by a committee of faculty.

To be eligible for participation, a student must: have a 70 or better average in each class for both the Winter and Spring terms; have satisfactory or better effort grades in each class for both the Winter and Spring terms; have completed all coursework up to the start of Senior Project; be in good academic and social standing; have met all graduation requirements; have turned in all necessary materials; and have paid all Proctor fees and fines.

For those who elect to participate, Senior Project, they must complete their project in order to participate in end-of-year celebration and commencement exercises. Project will be noted on the Proctor transcript with a Pass / Fail grade.
No student is eligible to participate in Senior Project if they have received a major violation, a minor violation, and/or social probation during the Winter or Spring terms. Having a points major or minor violation may prohibit a student from participating.

Once Senior Project begins, students with a major or other significant discipline may lose their opportunity to participate in commencement and other celebrations that happen during senior’s last week. Students may have the opportunity to petition and put together a thoughtful reflection in order to remain on senior project. A student will bring their petition to the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability, Dean of Teaching and Learning and Senior Project Coordinator.
Community Service
Proctor does not require community service hours to graduate. It is the school’s belief that if interesting and diverse opportunities are provided for students to volunteer, they will jump at the opportunity to assist members of the community. Students and advisors are assigned to dish duty four to five times a year. This responsibility supports the dining room staff and highlights the importance of community focused jobs. Additional Community Service occurs in conjunction with special school events such as Green Key, MLK, Jr. Day, Earth Day, and Community Days.
Defining Academic Credits
Proctor recognizes one credit as representing a passing performance (60% or better) in a Level 1 trimester course. One credit represents approximately 40 hours of classroom time and 20 hours of homework time. All credits earned at accredited/credit-granting schools and summer schools are honored. Questions regarding credit status must be resolved with the Dean of Teaching and Learning. All non-Proctor credits must receive prior approval by the Dean of Teaching and Learning.
Change of Grade or Living Status
When a student is admitted and chooses to enroll at Proctor, it is into a specific class and year of graduation. Sometimes students choose to “reclassify” upon enrollment or during their time at Proctor. Should a student or family wish to make a change in grade status once enrolled, the request should be made in writing to the Director of Enrollment. A committee composed of the Dean of Teaching and Learning, Director of College Counseling, and Director of Enrollment along with the student’s advisor review the request and a decision is rendered. In addition, should a student wish to change enrollment from Boarding to Day student or Day to Boarding student, a request needs to be made in writing to the Director of Enrollment. Due to enrollment management and budgetary constraints, not all requests will be accepted.

Participation in Non-Proctor Academic Programs
While Proctor offers the most diverse and accessible off-campus programs of any school, occasionally students and families have interest in academic programs outside of the Proctor model. Credits earned will be used towards overall credit requirement accumulation for graduation purposes. Any grade earned in a non-Proctor academic program will not be included in the student’s Proctor GPA. Should a student have interest in participating in such a program, the following must take place in order to receive Proctor credit for the program:

    • Student must have been a Proctor student for at least one full academic year.
    • Student must be in good academic and social standing.
    • Program must be accredited and accepted by Proctor.
    • Student must submit written proposal to Dean of Teaching and Learning.
    • A committee comprised of the Dean of Teaching and Learning, Director of Enrollment, and Director of College Counseling will render a decision on the proposal.
    • Credits earned may not exceed 20% of the students overall credit accumulation while attending Proctor.
Assessment and Grading
Each Level I trimester course is considered one credit unit and is listed separately on the academic transcript. At the end of a trimester, each student and teacher complete an evaluation of the student’s performance in that course. This includes written commentary and an assessment of effort. The teacher indicates a final academic grade and a final effort grade. A grade of 60 or higher is passing. Effort grades are given for each student in each course as one of the following: Honors, Satisfactory Plus, Satisfactory, Satisfactory Minus, and Unsatisfactory. Skills courses yield pass/fail and effort grades only. All grades and comments are viewable through myProctor (Parent’s Portal) on our website. Cumulative grades for year-long courses are not calculated.

The value of a final exam is determined by the department, but may not exceed one-third of the final grade. A teacher may elect to assign a project for the final assessment, in lieu of an exam, for one of the three trimesters of a year-long course. Department Heads may make exceptions to these policies.
Class Attendance/Completion Of Trimester Credits
Any student, having begun the term attending classes, who then misses more than two weeks (20% of class blocks in a term) may be assigned a pass/fail grade for the course instead of a full numeric grade. Any student who is unable to begin attending classes by the twelfth class day of the term will need to clarify their academic status with the Dean of Teaching and Learning.

***If a student receives a third Points Violation in a school year the student’s enrollment for the following year will be discussed and evaluated by the Director of Enrollment, the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability, and the Dean of Teaching and Learning.

Points can only be resolved through the Student Life Office. Although a student begins each term with zero attendance points, any violation given for points remains active on a student’s record during the school year.

Student Commitment to Dish Duty
Each student will participate in dish duty with their advisory each trimester. Students must find a substitute if other commitments, such as a field trip or away game, conflict with dish duty. Students may leave class/sports early to get to the dining hall at the start of the serving time. Day Students are expected to work dish duty. Dish Crew members stay to finish the job at meals before leaving for class. Dish Crew members at dinner stay until dining room and dish room are cleaned up.

Phones and Electronic Devices
Most students elect to use cell phones as their primary communication tool (Verizon and U.S. Cellular offer the best coverage in the area). As we continue to adopt new technologies at Proctor, we also strive to continue to maintain and enhance a strong intentional community that values meaningful relationships. Faculty and students should be aware of where and when to use technology and parents and guardians need to be judicious in their contact with their child. To develop student communication skills, self-advocacy, problem solving, social awareness and independence, Proctor adheres to the following guidelines with regard to phone and electronic device use:Student Commitment to Dish Duty
Each student will participate in dish duty with their advisory each trimester. Students must find a substitute if other commitments, such as a field trip or away game, conflict with dish duty. Students may leave class/sports early to get to the dining hall at the start of the serving time. Day Students are expected to work dish duty. Dish Crew members stay to finish the job at meals before leaving for class. Dish Crew members at dinner stay until dining room and dish room are cleaned up.

Phones and Electronic Devices
Most students elect to use cell phones as their primary communication tool (Verizon and U.S. Cellular offer the best coverage in the area). As we continue to adopt new technologies at Proctor, we also strive to continue to maintain and enhance a strong intentional community that values meaningful relationships. Faculty and students should be aware of where and when to use technology and parents and guardians need to be judicious in their contact with their child. To develop student communication skills, self-advocacy, problem solving, social awareness and independence, Proctor adheres to the following guidelines with regard to phone and electronic device use:

Withdrawing from Academic Courses
Students who drop a class from their course schedule after midterm grades are published, will receive a “w/d” on their transcript.

Academic Recognition
Any student who has received a “w/d” or who has changed from a (Level I) numerically graded course to a Pass/Fall (P/F) grade is not eligible for Academic Recognition during that term. Students must be enrolled in at least 4 Level I academic major courses to be eligible for Academic Recognition.

    • Head’s List consists of students whose unweighted academic term average is 90 or above and all effort grades are satisfactory or above.
    • Honor Roll consists of students whose unweighted academic term average is 85 or above and all effort grades are satisfactory or above.
    • Effort Honor Roll consists of students who at the end of the term receive Honors effort grades in at least 60% of their classes and commitments.
Academic Review
At the end of each term, students with a term average below 70% or an individual course grade below 60% will be placed on Academic Review. Students on Academic Review will have regular check-ins with their Advisor and Dean of Teaching and Learning. If a student is on Academic Review three times during their time at Proctor, the school will evaluate whether or not it is appropriate for that student to remain at Proctor.
Evening Study Hall
Evening study hall provides a two hour period for students to study, complete homework assignments, and prepare for the next academic day. Dorms will maintain a quiet and disturbance-free environment during mandatory study hall hours, enforcing all study hall policies and procedures. While evening study hall is from 7:30 PM - 9:30 PM Sunday through Thursday and 8:30 to 9:30 PM on Fridays preceding Saturday classes, students must allocate sufficient time to their studies above and beyond study hall hours and boarding students must be in dorms by 7:25 PM ready to study.

Most students elect in-room study supervised by the on-duty dorm parent. Some students may choose to study in the Lovejoy Library. Students must sign-up to study in the Lovejoy Library prior to 7:00 PM. If arriving after 7:30 PM or departing before the end of evening study hall at 9:30 PM, the student must present a signed note from a faculty member. The student remains there until 9:30 PM and returns directly to the dorm parent with a note signed by the librarian. Head’s List students may request to leave the library before 9:30 PM. Day students on campus after 7:30 PM are subject to all study hall procedures and guidelines.

We believe:
    • Although winning is an implicit goal, it is not the sole factor of success. Rather, success in athletics should be measured by the extent to which athletic teams develop and manifest the values core to the community: honesty, compassion, respect, and responsibility.
    • Athletic participation promotes wellness by teaching healthy physical and mental habits that benefit participants throughout life.
    • Good coaches are teachers who, in addition to possessing sport specific technical and tactical skills, are mentors who structure athletic participation to teach lessons that transcend the boundaries of the playing field or court, and who promote character development.
    • When athletes and coaches dedicate themselves to continual learning and ethical awareness, and embrace the life lessons afforded by sport, athletic success contributes positively to school culture.
    • Through competition and team membership, athletes develop appreciation for the value of hard work and cooperation.
Afternoon Activity Mission Statement
Proctor’s extensive afternoon activity program affords participants opportunities to explore and develop skills and competencies. Daily practice and engagement instill an appreciation for the commitment required to produce work of superior quality.

We believe:
    • Working collaboratively with peers and activity mentors, students enhance interpersonal skills and leadership abilities with a focus on the school’s core values and a sense of community pride.
    • Participation promotes wellness by teaching healthy physical and mental habits that benefit participants throughout life.
    • Contribution to the Proctor community is manifested through exhibitions, performances and service.
    • Proctor’s commitment to creativity, original thinking, personal expression and art-making is reflected in its afternoon program.
    • For students who are not able to fit music, ceramics, or photography into the academic day, the afternoon presents an opportunity to pursue artistic creativity and expression.
Athletic and Afternoon Activity Requirement
All students are expected to participate in an afternoon activity or sport each trimester. Students may choose from a wide array of offerings: performance activities, active activities, and community service activities. Ninth and tenth grade students are required to participate in at least two performance activities (one in the fall term) and one active activity during the school year. Eleventh and twelfth grade students are required to participate in at least one performance activity and one active activity during the school year. Team sports simultaneously satisfy performance and active activity requirements.

Students sign up for offerings in an afternoon program either upon enrollment or late in the spring term of the preceding academic year. While every effort is made to accommodate a student’s first choice, some offerings have limited enrollments and are dependent upon proper staffing.

Environmental Stewardship
Central to Proctor’s educational program is an awareness of environmental stewardship. Through intentional programming, like Earth Day, and informal educational opportunities throughout the year, students are made aware of environmental issues. Proctor’s Environmental Mission Statement guides institutional policy and education related to Environmental Stewardship.

| Student Life |
Leadership at Proctor
We believe that students who are invested in being citizens of the community should have a voice in the community. It is to this end that we have developed a leadership program that includes both a student government model that is peer-elected and a dormitory leadership group that is selected through an application process.
Student Leadership
Based on the belief that democratic processes are best for community development, a peer-elected group of student leaders represent the student community in many facets of student life. Members may be involved in presenting student-generated proposals to the faculty, acting as a resource for student health and wellness, and planning weekend activities and school-wide events.

The student leadership group is composed of class representatives who have been nominated by their classmates through a formal process in the spring. New students who wish to join student leadership may also be invited to join during the school year based upon their passion, energy, and participation. Ninth grade class representatives are chosen by their class at the end of the first trimester to serve the remainder of the year. Student leadership is overseen by the School Leader and Assistant School Leader who are voted upon by the students and faculty in the spring prior to the current academic year. The School Leaders attend all faculty meetings, are members of the Appeals Committee, and make frequent presentations to both the faculty and the school community at large. School Leaders set the tone for the entire student body in the same way dorm leaders set the tone for their respective dormitories.
Dorm Leadership
As a residential school, Proctor recognizes the need to help nurture strong mentoring relationships within the student body. Through an intentional application process, Proctor places student leaders within each dormitory to help facilitate these mentoring relationships. Dorm leaders promote and support the health, wellness, and safety of boarding students. It is their responsibility to become personally acquaint- ed with each resident, creating an atmosphere of openness and approachability, as well as a spirit of inclusion, unity, and respect among residents.

Dorm leaders promote open communication, mutual understanding, and the development of shared expectations among residents in order to support the mission and values of Proctor and its residential life program. Among other responsibilities, dorm leaders work with dorm parents and other dorm leaders to hold dorm meetings, manage student dorm jobs, plan events, and conduct student check-ins.
19
On-going training is essential to dorm leader development. As such, dorm leaders attend regular meetings and trainings throughout the school year. The performance of each dorm leader is evaluated formally at least once by their dorm parent and informally on an ongoing basis by the Dean of Residential Life. Dorm leaders who are involved in a disciplinary incident, receive an honor code violation, are placed on academic probation/warning, or are reported to have unsatisfactory performance at any time while serving as a dorm leader will have their position reviewed and termination will be determined by the Residential Life Coordinator and Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability. Dorm leaders who are placed on probation or receive a major violation while serving as a dorm leader will sacrifice their leadership position.
Day Student Leadership
Representing more than 25% of the student population, Day Students are a critical part of the Proctor community. In order to provide voice to the Day Student population and to assist Proctor’s Day Student Coordinator with activities, mentorship, and guidance, Day Student leaders are elected each year.
Additional Leadership Opportunities
While Proctors Student Leadership and Dorm Leadership are two formal leadership programs, students also have the opportunity to serve in a leadership capacity as a team captain within their afternoon activities and student-run clubs on campus. Current clubs include Proctor Environmental Action, Diversity Alliance, Student Activities, Proctor Broadcasting Network, AEMS Reading Club, the Proctor Coffee House, and more.

    • In the school’s ongoing efforts to maintain a safe and respectful school environment, the school may conduct a search of any student assigned or student owned computer, cell phone or any other electronic equipment for any reason including concerns such as a possible disciplinary infraction or involving the safety or well-being of any member of the school community.
    • Student cell phones are part of the emergency system and must be registered in our database.
    • Cell Phones/Electronic Devices: During our all school assemblies, cell phones and electronic devices should not be used (unless required). Cell phones, mobile devices, or head phones should not be used in the dining commons during meal times and we expect all members of the community to be sensitive to the use of technology in public areas on campus.
    • Parents are encouraged to not contact their child during class hours (8:15 AM to 3:00 PM), afternoon activities (times vary) or during study hall (7:30 - 9:30 PM) unless there is an emergency.
    • Phone use must fall within the parameters established by the Technology Use Contract.
Drone/Unmanned Aircraft (UA) Use on Campus
At this time, it is not permissible for individual students, faculty, staff or outside entities to operate unmanned aircraft/drones on the Proctor campus, interiors or exteriors. This is due to both Federal Aviation Association requirements, and risk management/ liability issues. Exceptions may be made for official school use or research/teaching use. Official school use of a drone or unmanned aircraft must be approved by the Director of Technology as well as the Head of School, Assistant Head of School, or Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability.
Dress Code
Philosophy of Dress Code at Proctor:
Proctor’s dress code affords community members the opportunity to express individuality while promoting an inclusive and respectful learning environment. We believe we have a responsibility to teach students how to dress for different occasions, some requiring more formal (or informal) dress than Proctor’s standard dress code.

Basic Principles: Neat, Clean, and Ready to Learn
Items listed in the “must wear” category below must meet this basic principle, from breakfast through the end of the final class of the day, Monday-Saturday and exam week.

Must Wear at All Times:
    • Top
    • Bottom
    • Footwear

May Not Wear During Academic Day:
    • Pajamas
    • Bathing suits
    • Tube tops
    • Clothing with excessive rips, holes or tears

May Never Wear:
    • Unlaundered, sweaty or soiled clothing during classes and in the Dining Commons.
    • Apparel referencing alcohol, tobacco, illegal substances/activities, profanities, violence, hatred or intolerance
    • Visible underwear (waistbands or straps on undergarments worn under clothing are not a violation)



Dress Code Enforcement
To ensure effective and equitable enforcement of this dress code every faculty and/or staff member has the authority to, and is expected to, enforce the dress code consistently by having a face to face conversation with the student who is out of dress code and if needed include the student’s advisor. For students who are routinely out of dress code, they may be required to process with the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability.
Bicycles, Skateboards, Scooters, and Other Wheeled Student Transportation
Many students enjoy the use of bicycles, scooters, skateboards and other on-campus transportation. Each bicycle should arrive on campus equipped with a strong lock. Identifying information, including serial numbers, for all student transportation devices must be reported to the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability in order to aid in the retrieval of the item in the event of loss or theft. The school discourages students from bringing expensive bicycles and other transportation devices to campus. For fire safety reasons hoverboards, self-balancing scooters, battery-operated scooters, hands-free segways, and other similar devices are prohibited in all school buildings and grounds.
Helmets and Safety
In an attempt to promote safety for all students and faculty riding wheeled vehicles on campus, Proctor has a required helmet policy for certain activities. Students must wear an appropriate helmet when:

    • Mountain biking on school trails.
    • Riding at the pump track located below the tennis courts.
    • Skateboarding or riding at the town of Andover skate park.
    • Skateboarding on campus when practicing any kind of grind, maneuver, or trick.
    • Helmets are strongly encouraged when riding or skateboarding between classes or as general transportation around campus.
Swimming
Proctor is fortunate to have numerous bodies of water within walking distance of campus: The Proctor Pond, Blackwater River, Adder Pond, Mud Pond, Elbow Pond, and Bradley Lake. Students who wish to swim on campus do so at their own risk and must observe the following rules:

    • Swimming may only happen during the daylight hours.
    • Students must swim with another individual – no swimming alone.
    • No diving.
    • Students may only swim at the swinging bridge in the Blackwater River; other river locations are not safe and considered off-limits.
    • Swimming must be voluntary; no student should ever be forced or coerced to swim against their will.
    • Swimming at any off-campus location must be with the permission of a faculty member and under the direct supervision of a Proctor faculty member, coach, or dorm parent. This adult has supervisory responsibilities, but may not be a trained lifeguard, so students still swim at their own risk.

In all cases, common sense should be used when students are near, on, or in the water.
Grounds/Boundaries
Campus proper is understood to be the school grounds, playing fields, ski areas (when involved in the ski program), and village limits east to Pizza Chef, south to the Proctor Ski Area, west to Bridge Road, and north to the first ridge. After dark, students are not allowed on Carr Field, at the Blackwater River bridge or at the Proctor Ski Area. Students must not trespass on private property, which includes Andover businesses and homes. Trespassing will result in a Major Violation. Students must abide by the Community Agreement while in local businesses.
Weekend Activities
Each weekend, students have the opportunity to take a break from their academic, athletic, and artistic commitments. In order to provide a diverse array of healthy, active weekend activities to boarding and day students, a faculty weekend team plans, creates, and hosts weekend events. This group of adults, with guidance from the Student Activities Office and Student Leadership, supports a variety of on- and off-campus activities offered each weekend. Student involvement in weekend activity ideas is absolutely critical.
Therefore, all students are encouraged to provide weekend activities ideas to the Student Activities Office and Student Leadership members.

On-campus events may include dances, concerts, and theatre performances. Faculty also sponsor on-campus activities such as ultimate Frisbee, orienteering, capture-the-flag, broomball, and ping-pong tournaments.

Off-campus trips are taken to nearby areas (such as Concord, Boston, or Hanover), colleges for cultural events, dinners, sporting events, and shopping. In addition, trips are taken to nearby climbing sites, local rivers for kayaking, ice climbing in the winter, ski areas, hiking, and local beaches for surfing. Some off-campus activities may involve additional costs (see Student Charges section).
Camping/Campfires
Proctor owns approximately 2,500 acres, 90 percent of which is woodlands. Recognizing this extraordinary resource, Proctor makes its acreage an educational tool and encourages students to enjoy camping and hiking experiences.

The following are guidelines for Saturday night camping on Proctor lands:
    • No student camps alone.
    • In order to protect the mountain wilderness, one of the four camping areas should be used: Mud Pond, Elbow Pond , Adder (Hopkins) Pond, and the Cabin.
    • Campfires are only permitted at the Mud Pond structure, Elbow Pond and at the Cabin.
    • All campfires require a permit from the town of Andover. Any fires lit without a permit or at any location other than Mud Pond and the Cabin are a violation of school rules and punishable as Conduct Unbecoming of a Proctor student. All fires need to be put out properly before leaving the campsite. Fires are not permitted when a town fire ban is in effect.
    • Each camping group chooses one person to be responsible for the group and its campsite.
    • Camping pass, signed by the student’s dorm parent and advisor, needs to be filled out and returned to the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability by 10:30 AM Friday (note: except under special circumstances, camping is allowed only on Saturday nights).
    • All campers leave before dinner unless returning late from a school-sanctioned commitment, in which case they must leave before 8:30 PM.
    • Once having left, no student returns to school before 8:00 AM the following morning (except in an emergency).
    • Co-ed camping occurs only with specific faculty supervision.

Violations of any of the above rules result in an indefinite loss of camping privileges. Violations which also result in violations of other school rules (or the spirit of those rules) result in further consequences.
Campus Security and Emergency Management
Despite a rural campus that is very safe, Proctor recognizes the importance of having safety protocols in place to ensure the safety of all community members at all times. Through proper planning and rehearsed drills, Proctor quickly and appropriately reacts and responds to any situation which potentially compromises the safety and well-being of our community.

On-going safety measures include:
    • Full time Security Staff to maintain campus safety.
    • Locks on doors of rooms unoccupied by students and faculty within residential buildings.
    • Electronic lock system on all residential buildings as well as additional school buildings limiting access to all buildings to those with approved access.
    • Regularly performed fire drills and execution of the emergency response plan.
Security Cameras
To help ensure the safety and security of students, employees, visitors, and property at Proctor Academy, the school is equipped with a video camera system. It covers selected interior and exterior public portions of the building and grounds. Cameras are NOT monitored constantly, do not record sound and viewing is limited to essential personnel. During certain events or emergencies, when the safety or security of students, employees or visitors may be in question, authorization may be extended beyond the essential personnel to view the camera system.
Signs are posted at campus entrances where cameras are in use. This statement will be made available to all students, employees, and visitors by posting on the school’s website and printing in appropriate publications. If you have any questions about the statement or system, you should call Rachel MacDuffie at 603-735-6697.
Fire Drills
Proctor continues to perform announced and unannounced Fire Drills throughout the school year. Most recently, Proctor has engaged in Safety Response and Action Drills.
Emergency Response Plan
Proctor Academy’s Emergency Response Plan was created to identify and respond to incidents by outlining the responsibilities and duties of the school and its employees. The plan provides parents and guardians and other members of the community with assurance that Proctor has established guidelines and procedures to respond to incidents and hazards in an effective way.

Unannounced drills of this Emergency Response Plan occur periodically throughout the year in order to practice appropriate responses to emergency situations with students, faculty, and staff. Proctor utilizes an integrated emergency response communication system to alert all community members (including parents and guardians) of an emergency situation or emergency drill.
Student Charges
Students have the ability to charge purchases to their student account at The Store, the Athletic Store, and for certain weekend activities. Textbooks costs are included in Proctor’s tuition. However, supplies are not covered by tuition. School supplies can be purchased at The Store. It is open daily, Monday through Friday, from 7:30 AM to noon and 1:00 PM to 3:00 PM and is located in Maxwell Savage Hall. It handles all shipping and receiving of packages. Purchases of athletic apparel and equipment at the Athletic Store may also be charged to a student account. Certain weekend activities may require additional fees. For these situations, students may bill the weekend activity costs to their student account. Parents are encouraged to talk with their child about family expectations around billing charges to a student’s account.
Banking
Full banking services are available through Bar Harbor Bank and Trust at its Andover branch adjacent to campus. An ATM is also available there. Limited check cashing services are available to students with a valid student ID.
Personal Property
Proctor does not provide insurance to cover a student’s personal property. Parents should review their homeowner’s insurance policies to insure appropriate coverage in case of loss or theft while the student is at school. Lost and Found items should be turned in and called for at The Store.
Day Student Expectations
Day students are integral members of the Proctor community and are both encouraged and expected to participate fully in the life of the school, including all educational programs. Day Students are welcome at all meals, and are encouraged to participate in all school-related activities and sponsored events. Day Students have the opportunity to have a locker in an academic building, and are able to spend free time in the Wise Center, Fowler Learning Center, and the Dining Commons. Day Students also have the ability to be paired with a dormitory in order to have additional space to socialize during free time. In the event of extreme inclement weather, Day Students may be able to stay overnight on campus in a dormitory with specific permission from the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability Office.
Day Student Guardianship
Day students must reside with a parent, legal guardian, or family member subject to the School’s approval. Students, regardless of age, are not permitted to live independently in a rental property or family residence. Families in violation of this policy place their student’s enrollment in jeopardy. Questions regarding this policy should be directed to the Director of Enrollment.
Day Student Travel/Driving
Parents and students must realize that having a vehicle on campus brings special responsibilities. While the vehicle provides con- venience, it also presents temptations that have the potential to jeopardize a student’s status within the community. A student
bringing a vehicle on campus is responsible for any violations of the above rules, or for violations of the spirit of those rules. Any violation will result in the student’s loss of vehicle driving privileges and may warrant further disciplinary action. Day Students may have their vehicles on campus provided:

    • A driving permission registration form is on file with the Student Life Office and their vehicle displays a Proctor parking permit on the right side rear window.
    • Vehicles are parked at all times in a designated parking area near the Dining Commons.
    • Day students may not use vehicles from the time they arrive in the morning, until they leave for home in the evening after their last commitment. *Exceptions to this policy must be approved by the Student Life Office and recorded on Orah.
    • Vehicles are not driven on campus at any time without specific permission from the Student Life Office.
    • No student may borrow another student’s vehicle.
    • 	If a student’s vehicle is believed to contain illegal substances or inappropriate items, a search of that vehicle may be undertaken at any time by the administration.
    • Any involvement with drugs/alcohol in conjunction with vehicles either traveling to or from Proctor may lead to dismissal.
    • A Minor Violation will result if the student’s vehicle is used on the campus proper, to transport students away from campus during the academic day, or blatantly misused or violated the spirit of the rules regarding day student driving permission.
    • Any student with automobile privileges must notify the school of any ticket, arrest or conviction of any driving violation except for parking tickets.
Day Student Tardiness and Communicating Absence
If a Day Student must miss school for a medical or personal reason, or will be late to school, their family must email attendance@ proctoracademy.org to communicate their student’s absence, tardy or dismissals. For additional help you may also contact the Health Center (603-735-6737). If a Day Student knows they will be absent in advance, a Gone From School (GFS) Orah pass must be submitted, endorsed by all necessary faculty/staff and approved to the Student Life Office or AOD prior to absence. In the event of inclement weather, day students may choose not to come to school that day or may be released early. This situation will only occur after notification to parents.
Day Student Check in/Check Out
Day students are expected to mark themselves “On Campus” and “Day Check Out” this is an important part of our emergency system. When a student arrives “On Campus” they are to mark themselves on campus using Orah. When a student departs campus they are to mark themselves “Day Check Out” using Orah. If a Day Student fails to check in or out three times it will result in an Official Note. If a Day Student fails to check in or out six times then parents, advisor and Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability will be notified. Repeated failure to check in or out may result in a minor violation.
Day Students On-Campus in Evenings/Overnight
Many day students choose to remain on campus following their last commitment to study in the Lovejoy Library between 7:30 PM
- 9:30 PM. We encourage day students to take advantage of our study environment. However, day students must follow academic study hall guidelines should they choose to remain on campus during those hours. Day students may not be in dorms or school buildings, other than Lovejoy Library past 7:30 PM.

For questions about being a Day Student at Proctor, please call Day Student Coordinator, John Bouton at 603-735-6628.
Boarding Student Expectations
Dormitory Culture Expectations
The following are expectations for all dorms on campus:
    • Residents will work together to create a trusting, respectful, and inclusive environment in the dorm.
    • Residents will respect the confidentiality of their peers’ gender identities and other personal information.
    • Residents will respect each other’s space and physical privacy.
    • Residents are expected to refrain from romantic/intimate relationships with other residents of their dorm.
Dormitory Visitation
Dorm visitation is a privilege permitted at the discretion of the on-duty dorm parent and dorm parent/surrogate team. Dorm parents reserve the right to set forth visitation guidelines and further restrictions that support the needs of the dorm community at any given time. Students are expected to conduct themselves appropriately during visits remembering that dormitories are shared living spaces where others must be respected, noise levels must be monitored, and spaces must be left clean and organized.

Dorm Residents may have guests during the following times:
    • Weekdays from 6:15 PM - 7:15 PM
    • Weekends: at the completion of afternoon activities until 10:25 PM on Saturday and from 11:00 AM- 7:15 PM on Sunday.

Guests guidelines (Proctor Students):
    • Guests can visit in the common room only without dorm parent permission.
    • In-room visits by non-registered guests must have specific dorm parent permission, and the on-duty adult must be present in the dorm.
    • The visitor must be accompanied by a member of the dorm and must remain with the host at all times.
    • Students must follow visitation etiquette which includes:
    • Door to the room remains fully open.
    • Light on at all times.
    • Students do not engage in intimate/sexual acts.
    • Visitor remains in the host’s room or common room only.
*Failure to abide by the above etiquette will result in the loss of visitation privileges.

Registered Guests (Proctor Students):
Dorm residents may pre-register a frequent guest to a particular dorm by filling out a frequent dorm visitor request, which must be approved by the dorm parent team and Student Life Office. A registered guest approval is good for one term. Proctor’s registered guest policy allows boarding students to welcome visits from both day students and residents of other dorms during open dorm hours. Guests may not visit during “in-dorm” times. Registered guest passes may be terminated at any time.

Overnight Non-Proctor Guests
Overnight non-Proctor guests may stay on campus in rare situations and must be approved by the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability and/or the Dean of Residential Life. If approved, the non-Proctor guest must fill out an overnight guest request at least 24 hours prior to arrival on campus. Both the host and the guest understand that the guest is subject to school rules and that the host is responsible for the conduct of their guest.
Dormitory Hours
Students must be in their dorms or other place of approved study by 7:25 PM Sunday through Thursday nights and 8:25 PM for Friday night. Saturday night in-dorm time is 10:30 PM for underclass persons and 11:00 PM for seniors. Students may be placed on dormitory restriction by a dorm parent for lateness. Exceptions may be granted by special permission from faculty members provided the student is under the supervision of a faculty member and the dorm parent has been notified.

Students must remain in their dorms until 6:00 AM unless permission is given by the dorm parent. If a student is in need of care at the Health Center after in-dorm time, the dorm parent must be notified prior to the student leaving the dormitory.
Dorm Rooms
Proctor’s small dormitories serve as a home-away-from-home for each boarding student. While we hope dorm rooms replicate all the comforts of home, some restrictions apply in order to provide a safe environment for students and faculty within our dormitories.
Dorm Furniture
All dormitory rooms have basic furniture including a bed and mattress, a desk and chair, and a bureau.

Student Provided Items
Students should bring bedding, a good desk lamp, and a lockbox for valuables.

Dorm/Room Key/ID
Every student will receive an electronic key card to the dorm that also serves as their ID upon their arrival at school. Every student also receives a key to their dorm room. If a key card or key is lost or misplaced, either one may be purchased for a nominal fee.
Room Cleanliness
Student rooms are to be presentable and kept in an orderly fashion. Dorm parents conduct room inspections periodically to help ensure cleanliness.
Room Electronics
    • When students are out of their rooms for more than a few minutes, all lights and electronics should be turned off.
    • Appliances and heating devices are not allowed in dorm rooms. Prohibited devices include refrigerators, heaters, hot plates or pots, plug-in tea pots, coffee makers (including Keurig coffee makers), irons, or George Forman Grills. The only acceptable heating devices are hair dryers and curling/straightening irons.
    • For fire safety, halogen lamps are prohibited in dormitory rooms.
    • Extension cords must be kept to a minimum (no more than one per outlet) and must be made of at least #16 wire. Surge protectors are highly recommended.
Sound System Use
Sound systems can be used only if they do not interfere with others’ rights to study, sleep, or enjoy general peace and quiet.

To protect these rights, the following rules are enforced:
    • Sound systems being played must be inaudible outside the student’s room. Headphones are required during study hall
    • Music may not be played out of windows which could be disruptive to others. An effort must be made at all times to respect the needs of the Proctor community and the Andover community.

Violations of these guidelines may lead to confiscation of sound system or other electronic equipment for an indefinite period at the discretion of the dorm parent.
Video Monitors/Game Consoles/Projectors
    • Each dormitory common room is equipped with a television which may be used during free time at the discretion of the dorm parent.
    • Televisions may not be used during study hall except for required academic assignments.
    • Televisions and video game consoles are not allowed in dorm rooms.
    • External monitors under 32-34 inches that connect to laptops can be used in an appropriate manner.
    • If the external monitor becomes a distraction to the owner, the roommate, or the dorm community, the dorm parent, advisor, or Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability may have the monitor removed at their discretion.
In order for students to have a video game console in their dorm room, they must:
    • Be a Junior or Senior
    • Be in good academic standing as defined by the Dean of Teaching and Learning’s office
    • Have permission granted by the dorm parent to determine if student is in good academic standing and is a positive member of the dorm community
    • End gaming console use at at 10:30 pm Sunday-Friday
27
Note: A gaming console can be removed by the dorm parent if there is a negative change in academics, effort grades, concerning Of- ficial Notes, or dormitory behavior. Dorm Parents have the agency to create a strike/warning system or make it a one time violation and the console is removed.
Room Decor
    • According to fire codes for dorm rooms, curtains, draperies, wall hangings, blankets, banners, and other decorative materials suspended from walls, closets, or other vertical surfaces should be flame resistant or noncombustible.
    • No materials should be hung from ceilings.
    • Students are expected to use good judgment in their choice of room decorations (i.e. posters) and dorm faculty have the responsibility to remove room decorations they feel are offensive or inappropriate, in their sole discretion.
Windows
Screens should never be removed from windows. During cold weather, windows should be closed to prevent pipes from freezing. Windows are not an appropriate means for entering and exiting a building, and students who have damage to their screens/windows may be charged for damages.
Locked Doors
Students should lock dorm room doors whenever they leave their room. At no time should a student be inside their room and have the door locked.
Pets
Pets are not allowed in dormitories.

Dorm Room Damages
Students are responsible for damage to their rooms, dormitory, and other campus areas. All damages should be immediately reported to the dorm parent or an appropriate adult. Charges for damages are levied against the student’s escrow deposit. Rooms and common areas are inspected for damages at the end of each term. Students are prohibited from altering permanent fixtures which have been built into a room, permanently attaching shelves and/or accessories to school property, or removing school furniture from rooms.
All furniture is to remain in the room and can be removed only with specific permission from the dorm parent or Director of Facilities.

Laundry
Card-operated washers and dryers are available in all dorms. Cards are available at The Store. In addition, laundry and dry cleaning services are available through E&R Laundry and Dry Cleaners in Manchester, New Hampshire, who offer several options to
suit individual needs. Information regarding these services is sent to parents and guardians during the summer or can be obtained through Becky Walsh.
Boarding Student Driving
Boarding seniors may have vehicles on campus in accordance with the specific policies below. Failure to adhere to these policies or a violation of school rules may result in the loss of driving permission. Students with vehicles on campus must abide by the following guidelines:

    • Permission: Prior to the start of the school year, any senior returning with a vehicle must communicate directly with the Student Life Office their desire to have a vehicle on campus and complete the vehicle on campus registration form. The student and parent/ guardian must complete all driving and riding permission forms and receive confirmation from the Student Life Office that the student’s vehicle is approved to be on campus.
    • Parking: Any boarding student with a vehicle on campus will be issued a parking permit by the Student Life Office. The park- ing permit must be displayed at all times on the student vehicle. Student vehicles may only be parked in a designated parking lot with assigned spaces. At no point in time may a student’s vehicle be parked at a dormitory or other parking lot on campus.
    • Keys and Vehicle Access: Immediately upon return to campus, the student will return their keys to the key box outside the Student Life Office. If the building is closed students will call the Administrator on Duty. If a student shows a pattern of not turning in keys to the Student Life Office or AOD, the privilege of having a car at school may be revoked. If a student uses the vehicle with a secondary set of keys without permission, car privileges will be revoked and additional disciplinary violation would be processed through the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability Office.
    • Vehicle Use: Vehicles will be parked in designated parking areas unless the student is in transit to or from campus. Boarding student vehicles are intended to be used for transportation to campus from the student’s home, or from campus back home with proper weekend or travel permission. Travel to other destinations with permission is allowed. Boarding student use of vehicles on weekdays or for day travel on Sunday is strictly prohibited, except with specific permission. Each time a student uses their vehicle, they must have parental permission and have a completed Orah pass. Students may not borrow another student’s vehicle. Students must return to campus with their vehicle by 7:00 PM. If an unforeseen situation causes a return to campus later than 9:00 PM, we suggest students travel the following morning for safety reasons.
    • Loss of Privilege: Violation of the above guidelines may result in loss of vehicle privileges. Additionally, if a student receives a major violation, vehicle privileges will be forfeited for the remainder of the academic year.
    • Substance and Vehicles: Any involvement with drugs, alcohol, or other substances and vehicle use traveling to or from Proctor will lead to dismissal from Proctor. Additionally, if Proctor suspects a student’s vehicle contains illegal substances or inappropriate items, a search of the vehicle may be undertaken at any time by the School Administration.
    • Student and Family Responsibilities: Parents and students must realize having a vehicle on campus may provide convenience, but carries with it significant responsibility. A student bringing a vehicle to campus is responsible for abiding by the guidelines above, and must operate their vehicle within the spirit of these rules. Any student with vehicle privileges must notify the school of any traffic violation, arrest, or conviction of driving violation except for parking tickets.
    • Underclass Vehicle Exceptions: Rarely, unique family situations require underclass students to have vehicle access on campus.

Each situation is handled on a case-by-case basis through the Student Life Office, in conjunction with other adults in the communi- ty directly responsible for the student requesting an exception. Any underclass student granted an exception is required to abide by the above guidelines.
Vehicle Driving Permission
A Proctor student with specific written or verbal parental permission may drive another student or friend during designated times. With this permission, a student is still responsible for completing sign-out procedures. Students must have a completed Orah Pass and be mindful of their driving/riding permission status. These are the driving permission options to be granted by parents/guardians. The School is not responsible for students driving/riding with others once they depart campus.

    • No Transporting Permission: I do not allow my child to transport other students.
    • Specific/Orah Pass Driving Permission: Student with specific written or verbal parental permission may drive another student or friend during designated times when a parent/guardian has endorsed and AOD approved a detailed(destination and specific student listed) Orah pass.
    • Blanket Driving Permission: Student may drive more than one student during designated times when a parent/guardian has endorsed and AOD approved a detailed(destination and specific students listed) Orah pass.

*Parents with questions or concerns may contact the AOD to approve both the driver and destination.
*Proctor Academy does not advocate parents provide Blanket Driving Permission for their child. It is the student’s responsibility to know their level of driving permission.
Vehicle Riding Permission
A Proctor student with specific written or verbal parental permission may travel in the vehicle of another student, friend, or parent of another student during designated times. With this permission, a student is still responsible for completing sign-out procedures. Students must have a completed Orah Pass and mindful of their riding permission status. These are the riding permission options
to be granted by parents/guardians. The School is not responsible for students riding with others once they depart campus.

    • Specific/Orah Pass Riding Permission: Students may only ride in a vehicle when a parent/guardian has endorsed and AOD approved a detailed(destination and students listed) Orah pass.
    • Blanket Riding Permission: Student may ride with any student/parent according to the rules, regulations of Proctor Academy and an approved Orah pass.

*Parents with questions or concerns may contact the AOD to approve both the driver and destination.
*Proctor Academy does not advocate parents provide Blanket Riding Permission for their child. It is the student’s responsibility to know their level of riding permission
Departing Campus
Whenever leaving campus or the immediate Andover village, unless on a school organized trip, students must complete an Orah pass, including parental/guardian permission, and sign-in and out with the Administrator on Duty.
Weekend Travel
Proctor’s weekend travel policies may need to be modified for the 2023-2024 academic year to mitigate risks to community health associated with the coming and going of boarding students from campus. When traveling off-campus for a weekend, boarding students must abide by the following procedures:

    • Students must complete a Weekend Pass by 12:00 noon on Friday. Weekend Passes require permission from the student’s advisor, coach, and parent/guardian. Final approval will be given by the Student Life Office.
    • If a parent/guardian decides at the last minute (after noon on Friday) to have a student home for the weekend, they should contact the AOD. **Last-minute permission to spend a weekend at a location other than with a student’s parent/guardian will not be granted.
    • Students must state accurately where they are traveling for their weekend; the destination may not be changed without approval by the Student Life Office or AOD.
    • Students may begin their weekend travel off-campus following their last school commitment for the week (usually afternoon program commitment on Saturday).
    • Once a student departs campus for the weekend, they are not to return to campus before Sunday.
    • If a parent/guardian decides at the last minute (after noon on Friday)to have a student home for the weekend, they should contact the AOD. **Students requesting last-minute permission to spend a weekend at a location other than their parent/ guardian will not be granted permission.
    • Students are required to return to campus by 7:00 PM Sunday evening for study hall.
    • Failure to follow proper weekend travel procedures, or their spirit, will result in an initial conversation with the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability Office. Subsequent failures to follow procedures may result in a Minor Violation for the student.

*Orah pass not completed when due, first offense will result in notification to the student and the advisor, and will be processed within the Student Life Office.
*Orah pass not completed when due, second offense will result in Official Note notification to the student, the advisor, parent/ guardian, and Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability.
*Orah pass not completed when due, third offense will result in Official Note notification to the student, the advisor, parent/guardian, Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability, and may result in student being processed for a Minor Violation for repeated violation of the Weekend Travel/Vacation Travel policy.
Vacations
Vacations dates and departure/return times for the 2023-2024 academic year are as follows:
Thanksgiving Vacation: 12:00 PM November 17 - 7:00 PM November 27
Winter Holiday Vacation: 12:00 PM December 15 - 7:00 PM January 3
Winter Bonus Weekend*: 12:00 PM January 25 - 7:00 PM January 29 *subject to change Spring Break Vacation: 12:00 PM March 1 - 7:00 PM March 18

Proctor’s dormitories will be open to international and national boarding students unable to travel home during vacations. The Student Life Office will help facilitate plans for those students unable to return home. Lodging, meals, and activities for International Students during vacations will be covered through the International Student fee. If a student is to remain on campus during a vacation, it must be communicated through the Student Life Office.
Vacation Travel
Students and families are required to complete an online travel form through Orah prior to departing campus for all vacations. This form helps the Student Life Office plan school sponsored transportation. For all vacations, Proctor provides school-sponsored bus transportation to and from Boston’s Logan Airport, Manchester (NH) Airport, and to Boston’s South Station Terminal for connecting bus and train travel. A nominal fee is charged for this service and students must sign up in advance through the Student Life Office which coordinates all vacation travel. Local bus services between Boston and New London, New Hampshire (15 minutes away) or Concord, New Hampshire (30 minutes) are available and limited pickups may be provided by the school.

The Student Life Office also keeps an updated list of preferred private driving services who may also be contacted.

Proctor supports carpools and shared van/car services for students in the hope of lessening our environmental impact. Parents and guardians are encouraged to contact other families for carpooling to and from campus whenever possible.

| Community Expectations/Standards |
Student Records
A student and/or parent/guardian in good financial standing, upon request, is entitled to receive a copy of the student’s official school record. A student’s official school record shall include the student’s transcript, academic records, advisor reports, and medical records created and maintained by the school. A student’s record does not include email communications to or about the student, records of disciplinary actions, investigation records of any kind (such as disciplinary, harassment, hazing, bullying etc. except for any record placed in the student file, such as a letter sent home to parent, etc.), recommendations provided to the school regarding the student’s admission, or any other record deemed by the school to be confidential records of the school, which have not been printed and placed in a student’s official institutional record.
Attendance and School Commitments
Students have a responsibility to meet all academic and extracurricular commitments as members of the Proctor community. The school has adopted the following attendance system to formalize and clarify the expectations of students regarding unexcused absences. Faculty are required to submit absences or lateness by the end of each day.

* Students are required to resolve any questions regarding absence points within 24 hours of receiving notification of attendance points.
*Points cannot be excused after the 24 hour deadline.

Proctor’s attendance system is designed to be educational for students as they learn the importance of attendance at school requirements and to be accountable if and when they are not in attendance. The response for repeated attendance issues or concerns is an escalating scale of consequences that could signal the student is not able to thrive at Proctor.
Temporary Absences From School
Sometimes unforeseen or special circumstances require Parents/guardians to excuse their child from school. These may include family obligations, religious observances, medical consultations, or personal commitments. Since nothing can substitute for valuable class time, we ask parents and guardians to plan within the Proctor school calendar whenever possible. In order for a student to be released from their school commitments students must submit a Gone From School Pass through Orah. The GFS Pass requires signatures from academic teachers, advisor, dorm parent and coach. Parents and guardians must endorse this pass in Orah acknowledging the student’s travel plans. Students missing more than 3 academic days will require further approval from the Dean of Teaching and Learning. If a student’s plan changes while away from school we ask that parents and guardians communicate with the school’s main office.
College Visit Absences From School
Juniors and seniors often make college visits throughout the course of the year. These visits are an important part of the college admission process, however, students must complete a Gone from School Pass prior to departing campus. The GFS Pass is available through Orah and must be signed by the student’s academic teachers, advisor, dorm parent, coaches, and College Counselor at least 24 hours prior to a student departing campus. When possible, students should plan college visits over school vacations or long weekends in order to miss as little academic coursework at Proctor as possible. Students and parents and guardians should refer to the College Counseling Handbook for further details on college visits. Students missing more than 3 academic days will require additional permissions from the Dean of Teaching and Learning.
Special School Day Attendance Expectations
Proctor’s academic schedule often overlaps with federal holidays. Regardless, students are required to attend all school-related commitments. Proctor asks families to support our educational mission by not requesting special accommodations to miss school related activities. Attendance points are in effect for all school-related activities, even if it is a non-traditional academic day.
Discipline Policies
Proctor is structured to help students develop personal responsibility within a community. This education is key to the Proctor experience as students are held accountable for their actions within a community that values both structure and freedom. The school’s detailed disciplinary system clarifies community expectations for student behavior and conduct, and defines responses to decisions, actions, and behavior inconsistent with the school’s core values. Proctor believes any disciplinary system should serve as an educational process for the student involved. Our role as a school is to help students understand the implications of their decisions, not only with regard to personal health and wellness, but for the overall well-being of the community.
Proctor’s responses to violations of school rules fall into eight categories:
Restriction | Points Violation | Minor Violation | Major Violation | Probation | Sanctuary | Dismissal | Restorative Justice

The following guidelines do not limit the administration or faculty from responding to unique circumstances with unique consequences, including dismissal. While Proctor specifies certain consequences (some involving dismissal) for certain violations, this is by no means a limiting, inflexible, or all-inclusive list. In each case, with its own set of unique factors, the school does its best to act in
a logical, reasonable, and consistent manner. Discipline violations are processed through the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability Office.

Note that disciplinary responses to violations of school rules may be initiated or supported by evidence intentionally or inadvertently recorded in photographs, audio, or video recordings.

Note: In the event Proctor needs to change to remote learning during the academic year, a communication from the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability Office will outline modifications to the discipline system, class attendance, or travel to and from campus.
Points Violations and Response to Accumulation of Points
    • Academic Class (2 Points)
    • Field Trip (2 Points)
    • Afternoon Activity/Athletics (2 Points)
    • Dish Duty/Assembly/Advisory (1 Point)
    • Lateness (1 Point)
**Attendance at Community Days (MLK, Earth Day, etc.) will be handled outside of the regular attendance system. If a student has an unexcused absence for a special day or unique academic programming, consequences will be processed through the Dean of
Teaching and Learning and Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability Offices and could result in disciplinary action depending on the situation.

Explanation of the four different absence points thresholds:
At 4 points the student receives an Official Note and there will be processing with the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability and advisor.

At 7 points the student receives
    • Points Violation 1
    • Sunday Morning Study Hall
    • Official Note and continued processing with the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability and advisor. If there is a pattern, such as a student missing the same class or sport repeatedly, then the coach or teacher may be pulled into the process.

*** At this level additional consequences can be added at the discretion of the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability and the student’s advisor such as, but not limited to, work hours, dormitory restriction, and possible removal from afternoon programming with support from the coach or program leader.
At 11 Points
    • Points Violation Number 2
    • Sunday Morning Study Hall
    • Official Note and continued processing with the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability and advisor. If there is a pattern, such as a student missing the same class or sport repeatedly, then the coach or teacher may be pulled into the process*
*** At this level additional consequences can be added at the discretion of the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability and the student’s advisor such as, but not limited to, work hours, dormitory restriction, and possible removal from afternoon programming with support from the coach or program leader.

At 14 points
    • Points Violation number 3
    • Student is placed on Probation for earning three Points Violations in one school year
    • Sunday Morning Study Hall
    • Official Note
    • Continued processing with the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability and advisor. If there is a pattern, such as a student missing the same class or sport repeatedly, then the coach or teacher may be pulled into the process.
    • Possible separation from school or suggested Medical Leave depending on the individual circumstances, this will be determined by the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability, Dean of Teaching and Learning, and Director of Enrollment.
Restriction
Dormitory restrictions can occur at the discretion of the dorm parent for failed room inspection, failure to sign out of dorm using Orah, being late for evening check in, or for behavior unsatisfactory as deemed by the dorm parent.
Sunday Morning Study Hall for Attendance Points
At 7, 11, and 14 points a student is required to attend Sunday Morning Study Hall 9:30AM - 11:30AM. The Sunday Morning Study Hall will have the following conditions:
    • Monitored by one of the AOD’s on duty
    • Students are required to make up any academics missed or outstanding work due to missing class
    • Technology can be used for academics only
    • Study hall will be held in the class room of Lower Maxwell Savage
    • Students will be asked to share their academic work progress and assignments with the study hall monitor/AOD
Minor Violations
The response to a Minor Violation is seven work hours to be completed through a supervised work program. Students receive a Minor Violation by:
    • Violating the dorm visitation policy, if found in another student’s dorm room without proper permission. Both host and guest lose dormitory visitation privileges in all dorms for two weeks.
    • Violating the dorm visitation policy, if found in a dorm prior to 3:30 PM without proper permission. Both host and guest lose dormitory visitation privileges in all dorms for two weeks.
    • Using an automobile in violation of riding/driving permissions.
    • Leaving campus without permission, Sunday through Friday, in a day student car. This pertains to both the driver and the passenger.
    • Repeated violation of Weekend Travel procedures.
    • Repeated failure to check in On-Campus or check out as Day Student Check-Out via ORAH may result in a minor violation for a day student.
    • Possessing, using, or being in the presence of tobacco or a mechanical smoking device used for smoke tobacco – first offense.
    • Damaging, defacing, or destroying property.
    • Impropriety or conduct deemed unbecoming of a Proctor student depending on nature and severity.
    • If a student receives three Conduct Warnings over the course of the academic year.
Tobacco Cessation
Proctor Academy is a tobacco-free environment. However, we understand the addictive nature of nicotine. For students struggling with an addiction to nicotine, resources are available in the Health Center.
Major Violations
The response to a Major Violation (non points related) is fourteen work hours to be completed through a supervised work program. After receiving a Major Violation, the student may not participate in the next athletic event, but must attend the game and all practices.
Students in leadership positions will relinquish their leadership positions for eight academic weeks. A senior receiving a Major Violation within two weeks of Commencement will lose the privilege of participating in any graduation activities.

Major Violations include, but are not limited to, the following:
    • Harassing another student and/or adult depending on nature and severity.
    • Using or possessing an illegal drug or alcohol.
    • Using or possessing drug paraphernalia.
    • Failed urinalysis resulting from using, possessing, or being in the presence of a vaporizer, mechanical smoking device, or e-cigarette.
    • Being in the knowing presence of a Major Violation.
    • Damaging, defacing, or destroying property.
    • Being in excess of forty-five minutes late for in-dorm check.
    • Leaving dorm after check-in.
    • Misuse of fire extinguishers.
    • Possessing, using, or being in the presence of tobacco or a mechanical smoking device used to smoke tobacco – second offense.
    • Stealing, lying, or plagiarism as an Honor violation.
    • Tampering with locks or being behind a locked door.
    • Trespassing on private property.
    • Using, selling, or distributing any substance that is either a controlled or illegal drug, or its analog with a chemical structure similar to that of a controlled drug; or the misuse, sale or distribution of prescription drugs; or the misuse, sale or distribution of any substance whatsoever for the purpose of inducing an altered state
    • Violation of the Technology Use Contract.
    • Sexual activity. Students found in sexually intimate situations, such as intercourse and oral sex, will receive a major violation. A student can only receive one sexual activity violation during their Proctor experience. A subsequent sexual activity violation will result in dismissal.
    • Impropriety or conduct deemed unbecoming of a Proctor student depending on nature and severity.
    • Harassing another student or adult depending on nature and severity is determined through a transparent and inclusive process (see details in the ethics code section).
    • Violation of weapons and violence policy.
    • Violating the dorm visitation policy, if found in another student’s dorm room without proper permission, host and guest - Second offense within a 365-day period. Both host and guest lose dormitory visitation privileges in all dorms for 4 weeks. Students who have received a dormitory visitation Major Violation will need to petition current dorm parent and advisor with a thoughtful reflection asking to regain visitation privileges.
    • Violating the dorm visitation policy, if found in a dorm prior to 3:30 PM without proper permission, host and guest - Second offense within a 365-day period. Both host and guest lose dormitory visitation privileges in all dorms for 4 weeks. Students who have received a dormitory visitation Major Violation will need to petition current dorm parent and advisor with a thoughtful reflection asking to regain visitation privileges.

A student receiving a Major Violation for drugs, alcohol, or paraphernalia must fulfill the following requirements in order to remain at Proctor:

    • Sign a No-Use Agreement which remains active for the next 365 days.
    • Undergo random urinalysis testing. A positive or tampered test would result in immediate dismissal. The cost of this testing is the responsibility of the student’s family.
    • Engage in counseling sessions with the School Counselor as prescribed by the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability and Advisor.
Vaporizers, Mechanical Smoking Devices, and E-Cigarettes
If a student is found using, possessing, or in the presence of a vaporizer, mechanical smoking device, or e-cigarette, they will undergo a urinalysis test through the Health Center to aid in determining the use of the device. An appropriate violation (Minor Violation for tobacco or Major Violation for marijuana or other illegal substances) will be processed through the Student Life Office.
Alcohol, Drug, and Substance Violations and Testing
If at any time during the academic year there is concern for a student’s medical well-being based on the possible consumption of drugs, alcohol or synthetics, the school reserves the right to utilize a Breathalyzer and/or Urinalysis. Any faculty/staff member may request that the student in question be met at the Health Center by the Administrator on Duty. The AOD and the Health Center professionals will then determine the appropriate course of action. A positive test will result in the student receiving a Major Violation for substance. A student with a second violation is dismissed from the school.
Substance Common Space Violations
If an illegal substance is found in a common space of a dorm, and if the responsible student(s) cannot be identified the following will occur:

    • 1st time: Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability Office will meet with dorm parents to discuss the possibility of a room and/or dorm search within 48 hours. That meeting between the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability Office and dorm parents may help to frame future interactions/ interventions with the dorm.
    • 2nd time: The dorm parents, with support from the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability Office, will close the dorm to any day or boarding students (visitors) for seven days. This time period will provide an opportunity for the dorm-peer group and student leadership group to address the issue and come forward with a student-initiated resolution.
    • 3rd time: The entire dorm will be placed on dorm restriction which could include a Saturday night. The time frame for dorm restriction will be determined by the dorm parents and Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability Office.
Sanctuary
A student who is involved with drug or alcohol use, possession, or in the presence of drug or alcohol while on campus may access and request adult intervention and be granted sanctuary from the discipline system.

In addition, the student(s) who accesses an adult intervention for the individual under the influence of drugs or alcohol may also be granted sanctuary if he or she was involved in the use, possession, or was in the presence of the violation. It should be the understanding of the student, parents/guardians, and school that while the sanctuary clause precludes a disciplinary response, the school will immediately communicate with parents, and, in conjunction with the parents, advisor, and Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability, create a plan of support for the student. This may include a signed No-Use Agreement, counseling, or additional appropriate support systems.

Students may not seek sanctuary once a discipline process has begun. Importantly, exceptions will be made if a student reports that they have experienced sexual misconduct or if they are a witness in an investigation to reported sexual misconduct. Students will not face disciplinary action from the school for rule violations that are disclosed in the course of their report regarding sexual misconduct.

In the event that a student needs the safety of the sanctuary policy, the School reserves the right to require the student to take a health leave, to not return to campus, or to remain on a health leave, especially in the event the School is not equipped to appropriately address the issues the student is facing.
Probation
Probation is a tool leveraged by the school when a student needs additional structure and consequences for behaviors that are not in alignment with the expectations outlined in the student handbook and the overall core values of the school.

The Student, the Advisor and family will agree to specific expectations and benchmarks that must be met by the student in order to mitigate the behaviors. If a student on Probation has an additional violation, they could be recommended for dismissal. Additionally, students on Probation may lose the opportunity to participate in off-campus programs.

After ten weeks on Probation, a student may petition to come off Probation. The student and their Advisor will meet with the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability Office, and other relevant people depending on the reason(s) for Probation, to review their petition to either come off or continue with Probation. If a student comes off of Probation and then has a disciplinary violation, they will return to Probation and could be recommended for dismissal.

A student on Probation will have their enrollment for the following school year reviewed by the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability Office, Dean of Teaching and Learning, and Director of Enrollment. If the student has not made significant progress on behavior(s) that resulted in Probation the student may not be asked back for the following school year.

Probation could result from but is not limited to:

    • Failing multiple classes or classes in multiple terms
    • Multiple academic honesty concerns
    • Multiple disciplinary violations
    • Three attendance points violations
    • Technology misuse
    • Repeated or Severe Dormitory/Residential Life Behaviors
    • Behavior Unbecoming of a Proctor Student.
Dismissal*
Once a student has been processed for a violation warranting a recommendation for dismissal, they have the opportunity to meet with a Disciplinary Committee composed of administrators, faculty and student school leaders. If the recommendation for dismissal is upheld, the student will not return to Proctor. If the Disciplinary Committee chooses to retain the student, an individual plan
of consequences and restorative steps will be implemented with the student and the advisor. The following violations may result in dismissal:

    • Harassment: depending on nature and severity.
    • Receiving two substance Major Violations at any point during their time at Proctor.
    • Receiving two Major Violations, or one Major Violation and two Minor Violations, within a 365-day period.
    • Visiting another dormitory after evening check-in.
    • Hosting a visitor from another dorm after evening check-in.
    • Involvement with or being in the knowing presence of the generation of fire in any school building or being involved with activity and paraphernalia associated with the potential for fire (i.e., matches, lighters, candles, incense, or fireworks).
    • Involvement in the supply or sale of drugs, alcohol, or controlled substances to other students.
    • Possessing a quantity of a controlled substance indicating the potential for use beyond the initial infraction, or the potential for the involvement of others in consuming the controlled substance.
    • Use or possession of “hard” drugs other than alcohol, marijuana, and derivatives.
    • Stealing, lying, or plagiarism as an Honor violation – depending on the nature and severity of the offense.
    • Unsatisfactory social performance after being placed on Probation or unsatisfactory academic performance after being placed on Academic Review.
    • Impropriety, or conduct deemed unbecoming of a Proctor student, depending on nature and severity.
    • Violation of any one of the School’s policies on bullying, hazing, harassment, or violence.
    • Any involvement with drugs/alcohol in conjunction with vehicles either traveling to or from Proctor will lead to dismissal.
    • Violation of weapons and violence policy.
    • Violating the dorm visitation policy, a third offense within a 365-day period.

*If a student is dismissed from Proctor, the student may not return to campus without permission from the Head of School, Assistant Head of School, or Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability. If the student wishes to return to campus to visit friends or obtain belongings, they should communicate in advance with one of these three administrators.
Discrimination, Harassment, Bullying, and Hazing
Harassment, discrimination, bullying, and hazing are serious offenses, prohibited by federal and state law as well as the policies of Proctor Academy. Where inappropriate conduct is found, Proctor will act promptly with the goal of eliminating the conduct and taking whatever other corrective action it deems necessary. Through education and intervention, the school makes every effort to achieve an educational environment that is free from harassment, discrimination, bullying and hazing. While harassment, discrimination, bullying and hazing all fall within a spectrum of interpersonal aggression and sometimes violence, they are not synonymous.
Equity, Inclusion, and Discrimination
As a community dedicated to principles of equity and inclusion, Proctor Academy welcomes the thoughtful contributions of all individual voices. Discrimination and bias-based behaviors violate Proctor’s core values of respect, responsibility, compassion and honesty, and have no place within the Proctor community.

All people are to be treated with dignity, respect and equitably regardless of their ability, age, ethnicity, race, color, religion, gender,
gender identity, sexual orientation/identity, family or national origin, genetic information, veteran status, physical or mental disability, ancestry, or other protected category. Examples of behaviors that may be considered discriminatory and/or bias-based include, but are not limited to the following:
    • Excluding student(s) from a group or social activity based on bias or social or cultural identifiers (race, gender, sexual orientation, appearance, etc.).
    • Using hurtful language, gestures, or images.
    • Mocking or harmfully imitating another person or group.
    • Inappropriately identifying someone by a characteristic rather than their name.

In the spirit of embracing diversity and creating a comfortable environment for all members of the school community, Proctor commits to providing an inclusive environment that supports the needs of its community members to the best of its ability. Additionally, Proctor encourages its community members to engage in an ongoing practice of cultivating in one another the courage, grace, and skill to discuss differences of opinion. A spirit of openness and thoughtfulness allows us to honor the value of each person’s perspective.

All members of the Proctor community bear the responsibility of upholding these principles of equity and inclusion, and we expect those who witness incidents violating the rights and dignity of others to bring their concerns to an advisor, dorm parent, teacher, coach, Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability, the Dean of Equity and Belonging, or other adult of their choice. All incidents will be promptly addressed. Violations of either the letter or spirit of Proctor’s principles regarding equity and inclusion are subject to disciplinary action, including dismissal, and may be subject to legal consequences.

Discriminationatory behavior can be deemed harassment depending on severity, persistence, or pervasiveness, leading to harmful environments. These behaviors may include repeated comments, insults, name-calling, innuendoes, social media posts, gestures, jokes, or threats.

When individual incidents or patterns of behavior are deemed to constitute discrimination, discriminatory harassment, or sexual harassment the Office of Equity and Belonging will engage the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability office and the school’s harassment committee to investigate and recommend a disciplinary or restorative response. A DEI representative will be in a permanent position on the harassment committee. Having a DEI lens in the discipline system is significantly important to provide insights on how the process can be equitable. The harassment committee will work with the DEI team to find ways for restorative approaches whenever plausible. If a reparative solution is not possible, the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability office and the school administration will have an inclusive ad hoc disciplinary committee to decide dismissal.
Definitions:
Harassment:
Illegal harassment or discrimination is conduct or behavior which relates to race, color, religion, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, veteran status, physical or mental disability, national origin, or ancestry or other protected category and is personally offensive or threatening, impairs morale, or is so pervasive or severe that it has the purpose or effect of:

    • Creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive environment;
    • Interfering unreasonably with an individual’s academic performance; or
    • Creating a situation where academic decisions of a student depend on his or her submitting to and/or not objecting to the behavior.

Harassment can take many forms. Examples include, but are not limited to:

    • Limiting opportunities to participate in certain clubs, teams, or activities based on certain characteristics;
    • Slurs, jokes, statements, remarks, questions, gestures, pictures, e-mails, texts, or cartoons regarding legally protected status that are derogatory or demeaning to an individual’s or group’s characteristics or that promote stereotypes;
    • Demands for sexual favors in exchange for favorable treatment, academic rewards, or continued participation in a program or project;
    • Offensive or unwelcome sexual flirtation, advances or touching;
    • Obscene, demeaning or abusive commentary about an individual’s body or other personal characteristics;
    • Audiotaping or videotaping individuals in potentially embarrassing situations and/or forwarding such taped material to others;
    • Responding to refusals to provide sexual favors with verbal, emotional, or physical abuse.

Often harassing behavior results from ignorance or insensitivity to the feelings of others. Being mindful of how one’s behavior is affecting others, and communicating the effect of the behavior of others are good ways to minimize harassment.

Bullying
Bullying is characterized by a power differential and involves aggressive behavior that is repeated and intended to cause harm. Bullying is defined as the repeated use by one or more students of a written, verbal, or electronic expression, or a physical act or gesture or any combination thereof, directed at a target that:

    • Causes physical or emotional harm to the targeted student or damage to the targeted student’s property;
    • Places the targeted student in reasonable fear of harm to themself or of damage to his or her property;
    • Creates a hostile environment at school for the targeted student;
    • Infringes on the rights of the targeted student at school; or
    • Materially and substantially disrupts the educational process or the orderly operation of the school.


Bullying can include, but is not limited to, any of the following:
    1. Hitting, slapping, pushing, and other physical conduct that causes bodily harm;
    2. Threatening in a manner that puts someone down or is cruel;
    3. Deliberately excluding someone as a way to humiliate or demean them;
    4. Sexually harassing conduct.

Cyber-bullying
Cyber-bullying is bullying through the use of technology or electronic devices such as telephones, cell phones, computers, fax machines, and the Internet. It includes, but is not limited to, e-mail, instant messages, text messages, and Internet postings, whether on a webpage, in a blog, any form of social media, or otherwise.

Cyber- bullying may include, but is not limited to, any of the following kinds of behaviors:
    1. Taking a private e-mail, direct message, or text message and forwarding it, or threatening to forward it to others or posting it where others can see it to embarrass or intimidate a person;
    2. Spreading hurtful rumors online about another person;
    3. Threatening or insulting through aggressive e-mails, instant messages, or text messages;
    4. Posting, or threatening to post embarrassing pictures of someone online without their permission;
    5. Creating a Web page or blog in which the creator assumes the identity of another person or the knowing impersonation of another person as the author of posted content or messages, if the creation or impersonation causes any of the conditions listed in the definition of bullying listed above.
Hazing
Hazing is defined as conduct or a method of initiation into any student organization which willfully or recklessly endangers the physical or mental health of any student or other person, regardless of consent of the individuals involved.

Examples of hazing include, but are not limited to: whipping, beating, branding, forced calisthenics, exposure to the weather, forced consumption of any food, liquor, beverage, drug or other substance, or any other brutal treatment or forced physical activity which is likely to adversely affect the physical health or safety of a student or other person, or which subjects a student or other person to extreme mental stress, including extended deprivation of sleep or rest or extended isolation.
Hazing is predicated on inclusion and can sometimes be overlooked because it can appear as neither particularly aggressive or as intended to harm. In addition, hazing can sometimes be confusing for students to understand because they might consent to the behavior. It is important to note that because hazing involves a group context and the power differential of current members and those seeking membership or acceptance by the group, peer pressure and a coercive environment can exist and interfere with consent. Therefore, conduct can be deemed to be hazing regardless of a person’s willingness to participate.

Sexual Harassment
Any and all sexual advances or conduct between adults and students is prohibited.

Sexual harassment is defined as sexual advances (either verbal or physical), requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature which affects a student’s emotional well-being or interferes with a student’s academic performance or participation in co-curricular or extracurricular activities, or which has the purpose or effect of creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive learning or social environment.

By the same token, sexual harassment of an adult by a student or by another adult may have legal implications. Sexual harassment of an adult occurs under the law when submission to such conduct is either an explicit or implicit term or condition of employment or any employment decision (e.g., promotion, training, timekeeping or overtime assignments, etc.); or the conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering with an individual’s work performance, or creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive work environment.

Proctor Academy condemns and expressly prohibits sexual contact or relationships between adults and students and sexual harassment of any kind. While Proctor must comply with state and federal laws dealing with sexual harassment, our policy also seeks to educate members of the community about the nature of sexual harassment and to do whatever we can to prevent it from occurring.

Proctor Academy is unequivocally committed to ensuring the safety and integrity of student growth. We actively teach each and every member of the Proctor community about the proper roles and relationships that comprise community life. We set forth and seek every opportunity to talk about the importance of boundaries. We expect that the life experience of adults at Proctor will enrich the student’s learning experience. We place the student’s best interests above all other considerations. All sexual advances (overt or otherwise) between adults and students are prohibited, on or off the grounds, even if a student encourages or appears to encourage such advances. Sexual behavior between adults and students is considered a severe breach of trust and will be dealt with as such.

Identifying Sexual Harassment
Sexual harassment can take various forms, many of which violate state or federal laws. Not all forms of sexual harassment may be readily apparent to every member of the community. It may be direct and overt, or it may be subtle and ambiguous. It may be behavior that is repeated, or it may be behavior that occurs only once. It is not social or courting behavior between equals, but rather the assertion of power over another individual that puts that individual at a disadvantage.

Individuals might unintentionally act in a manner that others experience as sexually harassing. It is the responsibility of all members of the community to ensure that their words, actions, and interactions with others always reflect the intent to promote respect and trust. Attempts to justify such behavior as a “prank” or “joke” do not change its harassing nature if the object of the joke is not a willing participant. Whatever the basis for the harassment, it is prohibited.
When trying to identify whether behavior is “harassing,” it is crucial to distinguish student-to-student interactions from sexual intimacy between students and adults, which is always prohibited. Physical contact between students that is intended and perceived by those involved as positive, healthy, and appropriate to their age and experience is likely to occur. However, inappropriate physical relationships between students are described and prohibited in Proctor’s written expectations of students.

When these behaviors occur between an adult and a student, it is irrelevant whether the behavior is welcome or unwelcome. There is no circumstance in which these behaviors between adults and students are permissible. The following behaviors are examples of harassing behaviors. The list is suggestive rather than exhaustive, and members of the community should seek advice and assistance in any circumstance in which they are made to feel uncomfortable by the behaviors of another.
Some examples of harassment are:
    • Physical assault, including rape or any coerced or non-consensual sexual relations;
    • Sexual advances, whether they involve physical touching or non-physical contact;
    • Sexual or lewd jokes, remarks, leering, whistling, brushing against the body, or other suggestive or insulting gestures or comments;
    • Inquiries into one’s sexual experiences or activities or discussion of one’s own sexual experiences or activities;
    • Audiotaping or videotaping others in sexual or other potentially embarrassing circumstances and forwarding or threatening to forward the taped material to others intimidating or suggestive remarks about an individual’s sexual orientation, whether actual or implied;
    • Sexually suggestive or degrading sounds or remarks (written, oral, or electronically transmitted), including graffiti and the spreading of sexual rumors, made to or about another member of the community;
    • The use of School technology to transmit sexually suggestive, offensive, and/or degrading material, whether received at the School or elsewhere the open display of sexually offensive objects, pictures, and messages.

Hostile Environment
A hostile environment is one in which discrimination, harassment, hazing or bullying causes the school environment to be permeated with intimidation, ridicule, or insult that is sufficiently severe or pervasive to alter the conditions of a student’s education.

Retaliation
Retaliation is any form of intimidation, reprisal, or harassment directed against a student who reports discrimination, harassment, hazing or bullying, provides information during an investigation of such behavior, or witnesses or has reliable information about such behavior. All members of the Proctor community should understand that behavior which may not specifically be intended to be retaliatory may be perceived as retaliatory by the target. As such, careful attention must be paid to interactions with those who have made reports or participated in investigations under this policy.

Retaliation against any individual for reporting violations of the policy, whether by the object of the complaint or someone else, will not be tolerated and will be subject to the same strict discipline as harassment, discrimination, hazing or bullying itself. Each retaliatory offense will be investigated and sanctioned separately. Individuals who themselves are not complainants, but who participate in an investigation, for example, as witnesses or investigators, will also be protected from retaliation under this policy.

LEGAL DEFINITIONS AND SCHOOL POLICY
It is important to bear in mind that stricter standards of behavior than those provided by law may apply under the policies of Proctor Academy in order that we may prevent inappropriate verbal and physical conduct. Proctor Academy reserves the right to apply disciplinary measures and other corrective action in a case of a single expression, act, or gesture, if the School determines that it is of sufficient severity to warrant disciplinary measures or other remedial action. Conduct need not meet the legal definitions of harassment, discrimination, hazing, or bullying to violate the School’s expectations for appropriate behavior and be actionable.

PREVENTION
Proctor Academy is committed to provide the healthiest possible school environment for all members of our community. As such, the School regularly engages students, faculty, and staff in opportunities to understand and put into practice community standards and expectations.
41
Training for students, faculty, and staff that is specific to harassment, discrimination, bullying, hazing, and sexual harassment is provided at regular intervals at developmentally appropriate levels each school year, including visits to each dormitory by members of the Harassment Committee each fall. The aim of such training is to prevent such behaviors from occurring and to equip community members with the understanding, skills and support to adequately respond to such instances should they occur.

Training occurs for groups of students and employees around particular topics. The School may also require individuals to attend such training to improve their understanding of the issues surrounding harassment, discrimination, bullying, hazing and sexual harassment and the importance of preventing such instances. Information is always available through the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability’ Office and the Human Resources Office. In addition, the School works closely with legal counsel and healthcare professionals who can provide additional information and training to members of the School community when needed.

PROCTOR HARASSMENT COMMITTEE
Proctor has a Harassment Committee made up of faculty members whose sole purpose is to mediate and investigate issues of harassment within the student community. The Committee works diligently to proactively educate the school community about issues of harassment and to mediate any potential issues that arise between students throughout the year. Once an issue is brought to the attention of the Harassment Committee, the group will investigate the situation and advise the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability’ Office should additional disciplinary steps need to be taken by the school.

Members of the Harassment Committee for the 2023-2024 school year, and their respective telephone numbers, are:
Alisa Barnard
603-735-6649
Chris Farrell
970-209-4410
Annie MacKenzie
603-491-5984
Gregor Makechnie
603-735-6671

A separate Employee Harassment Committee exists to handle issues of harassment involving employees of the school. Specifics around this Committee’s function and role at the school can be found in the Proctor Employee Handbook.

REPORTING COMPLAINTS
Proctor Academy will not tolerate and responds vigorously to any reported harassment, discrimination, bullying, hazing or sexual harassment of students, faculty, staff, or family members of employees residing on the grounds by vendors, contractors, other third parties having agreements or other contacts with the School, supporters of the School (donors, volunteers, alumni, parents), and/or visitors to the School.

Even when students are not certain about whether they have been subject to or witnessed harassment, discrimination, hazing or bullying, it is important that the behavior be reported. Individuals who have been subject to such behavior often suffer in silence, believing that they are the only one to whom this is happening and wrongly feeling that they are somehow responsible. Inappropriate behavior can continue over many years because individuals think they are alone, or because they fear punishment or unwanted attention and embarrassment if they tell.

Any individual who feels that she or he has been subject to discrimination, harassment, hazing, or bullying may consult with their advisor, a member of the Harassment Committee, the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability, Assistant Head of School, or another trusted adult.

Any member of the faculty or staff of Proctor Academy who witnesses or otherwise becomes aware of discrimination, harassment, hazing, or bullying in violation of this policy or who becomes aware of retaliation against a student who provides information concerning a violation of this policy is required to report it immediately to the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability, a member of the Harassment Committee, or the Director of Human Resources. Such reporting does not discharge the obligation of the faculty or staff member to report actions covered by reporting laws to the appropriate legal authority. A member of the faculty or
staff may not make promises of confidentiality to a student or parent who informs him/her of an allegation of harassment, discrimination, hazing, bullying, or retaliation.

An individual who needs to report an incident of harassment, discrimination, bullying, hazing, or sexual harassment may do so through one of three means:

    1. Report the incident directly to the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability or Assistant Head of School.
    2. Report the incident to a member of the Harassment Committee.
    3. Report the incident to their advisor or other trusted adult, who then passes the incident report along to the Harassment Committee and/or Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability.

Although there are circumstances in which an anonymous report can be better than none at all, it is far more difficult to determine the facts of what occurred if complaints are made anonymously. Also, while the School cannot promise strict confidentiality, because information must be shared in order to conduct an effective investigation, the School releases information concerning complaints of harassment, discrimination, hazing, bullying, and retaliation only on a need-to-know basis, such as to conduct a comprehensive investigation or to ensure that the requirements of this policy and applicable law are met.

RESPONSE TO COMPLAINTS:
Once a report of harassment, discrimination, bullying, hazing, or sexual harassment involving students is made, the Harassment Committee will typically investigate the reported incident. In some cases, the Chair of the Harassment Committee may ask the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability or an outside investigator to help conduct the investigation. In other cases, the Chair of the Harassment Committee may determine that no investigation is necessary after initial mediation takes place, at which point the case would be filed with the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability office.

During the investigation process, members of the Harassment Committee interview as many individuals involved in the situation as they are aware of in a neutral location. Each student interviewed by the Committee is accompanied by their advisor during the
interview, and the alleged harasser is given an opportunity to respond directly to the allegations. Following initial conversations with all students involved, the Harassment Committee discusses their findings and reports to the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability, Assistant Head of School, Director of Human Resources, or Head of School based on the severity of the situation and those involved. Appropriate disciplinary action is taken depending upon the nature and severity of any proven incident. A harasser is subject to immediate discipline, which may include dismissal from Proctor Academy.

Everyone is encouraged to report any incident that they may deem to be based on bias or amounting to discrimination. The school will address them with a goal to repair harm, take responsibility, and educate to continue strengthening the scghool. If the behaviors persist, they will become the purview of harassment as determined by the Office of Equity and Belonging.

FALSE CHARGES/COOPERATION IN INVESTIGATION
Because allegations of discrimination, harassment, hazing, and bullying are serious and can be damaging to accused persons’ reputations, any person who knowingly, maliciously or recklessly makes a false complaint will be subject to severe discipline. In addition, because candor and honesty are essential to the investigation and remediation process, they are required of all participants, including third-party witnesses.

The withholding of material information in an investigation by complainants, witnesses, and/or the accused party is prohibited. Students are expected to cooperate fully in an investigation conducted by the School; failure to demonstrate such cooperation will lead to disciplinary action. Abuse of the process, including falsifying information, will result in discipline being imposed, up to and including dismissal from school.
RECORDS
Following disposition, all records of complaints will be retained by the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability or the Director of Human Resources, as applicable. These records will be accessible on a need-to-know basis only. For employees, these records will generally be kept apart from an employee’s central personnel file, unless disciplinary action has resulted from a complaint against the employee, in which case the records will become a part of the central personnel file.
Mandatory Reporting Laws
If the interaction between individuals is deemed to be disciplinary in nature, the school will respond promptly and appropriately. If a student presents they have been sexually assaulted the incident will be processed outside of the Proctor discipline system by local and/or state police, and the students will be supported through the reporting process as well by School resources.

Once an incident has been reported to the appropriate school authorities and criminal reporting has occurred, the student will be protected by the school disciplinary guidelines from any retaliation from the aggressor. If a student experiences retaliation or has cause for concern they should immediately bring it to the attention of an adult in the community. If a student presents they have been sexually assaulted they will be processed outside of the Proctor discipline system and supported through the reporting process.
Violence
Violence, on any level, will not be tolerated at Proctor Academy. Proctor students must never be involved in physical confrontation in an effort to resolve personal differences. Fighting, on or off campus, will not be tolerated. In addition, the threatening of another individual will not be tolerated. Threatening includes any behavior which purposely places or attempts to place another individual in fear of imminent bodily injury or physical contact. Acts of violence or threatening violence will result in disciplinary consequences.
Weapons
Students are strictly prohibited from bringing firearms, ammunition, knives, explosive devices (including fireworks) or other weapons onto Proctor’s premises, which includes all buildings and land adjacent thereto. Violators will be subject to appropriate disciplinary action up to and including immediate dismissal.
Safe School Zone Law of New Hampshire
Proctor Academy is covered under the “Safe School Zone Law”. Under the law, the school may be required to immediately report to legal authorities when any employee has witnessed or has information relating to laws breached on school property. This includes acts of violence, sexual assault, theft, sale or possession of a controlled substance, arson or criminal threatening. Any student with
a concern regarding possible criminal activity covered by the Safe School Zone Law should immediately speak with an adult in the community.
Additional Discipline Information
Partnership with Local Police and Emergency Services
Proctor works closely throughout the year in partnership with the Town of Andover Police Department and the Town of Andover Emergency Response team to help provide a safe campus environment. When laws are violated on campus, the school works in conjunction with local authorities in addressing the situation and reporting violations of the Safe School Zone Law of New Hampshire (New Hampshire RSA 193-D) to local legal authorities through the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability Office.
Notice of Out of School or Off-Campus Behavior
Students should be aware that certain activities, even outside of school hours or off school property may result in loss of school privileges and other disciplinary action up to and including suspension or dismissal. Students may be subject to discipline for mis- conduct which is, or may be, disruptive of the educational process, interferes with the work of the school, is contrary to the mission of the school, impinges on the rights of other students, employees, or members of the school community, or has a direct or immediate effect on the discipline or general welfare of the school, even if such conduct takes place off campus, during non-school hours or
on breaks from school. Such conduct will be evaluated at the sole discretion of the school, and the school reserves the right to deviate from the regular disciplinary process as may be deemed necessary under the circumstances. Some examples of such outside conduct which may have disciplinary ramifications at school include any violation of the law; underage purchase, use, or possession of alcohol or a controlled substance, cyberbullying or other use or misuse of computers, or computer websites (personal, at home or at school), which do, or could, impact the welfare of any member of the school community or the reputation or functioning of the school.
Dealing with Criminal Conduct
Should the unfortunate circumstance of dealing with criminal conduct occur, students are expected to cooperate in any investigation. Students are expected to be honest, but honesty is not necessarily a mitigating factor and students’ own statements may be used against them. Failure to cooperate with an investigation may be cause for disciplinary action by Proctor. If a student refuses to participate or cooperate at any stage of an investigation, the school reserves the right to take action, including proceeding without a statement from the student, or to ask the student to leave Proctor.
Learning from Mistakes
Proctor respects the privacy of community members. However, the school believes that students benefit in learning from each other. Therefore, the school reserves the right to communicate any issue of discipline, including names, details, and other information the school deems significant for the purpose of furthering the educational and learning experience of the students and the overall good of the school community.
Appeals System and Disciplinary Committee
Disputes regarding alleged violations of school rules, including the spirit of those rules, are reviewed individually as they occur. Once a student has been processed for a violation warranting a recommendation for dismissal, they have the opportunity to meet with a Disciplinary Committee composed of administrators, faculty and student school leaders. If the recommendation for dismissal is upheld, the student will not return to Proctor. If the Disciplinary Committee chooses to retain the student, an individual plan of consequences and restorative steps will be implemented with the student and the advisor.

If a student presents an immediate threat to persons or property, the administration reserves the right to take unilateral action. While the question of degree is always important, remaining consistent to our structures and to recent precedents is our presiding goal in implementing the disciplinary process.
Searches
Proctor reserves the right to enter, inspect, and/or search rooms, cars, school furniture, and/or any other item in a student’s possession at any time and without prior notification. The administrator on duty authorizes any room search and, when deemed appropriate, the dorm parent and the student(s) whose room is being searched are present when the search takes place. At the discretion of the administrator on duty, a room may be searched without following the above procedure.

In the School’s ongoing efforts to maintain a safe and respectful school environment, the school may conduct a search of any student-assigned or student-owned computer, cell phone or any other electronic equipment for any reason, including concerns about a possible disciplinary infractions or involving the safety or well-being of any member of the school community. In addition, the school reserves the right to search any electronic device should there be suspicion that the device contains evidence of a school or legal violation.
College Process and Discipline Violations
Most college applications, including The Common Application, request “Disciplinary History” on both the application and the Secondary School Report forms. For any student who receives a major violation or honor code violation during their junior, senior or post-graduate years, Proctor will answer, “Yes” to the disciplinary question. Students are counseled to be forthright and honest when answering all questions on college applications.
At any point during the senior or postgraduate year a student who experiences a significant “change in status” must notify colleges to which they have been admitted or are still being considered for admission. If the student has deposited and notified all colleges of their decision, they need only to contact the college to which they have decided to matriculate. “Change in status” includes and is not limited to: a change in courses, loss of leadership position, separation, dismissal, and disciplinary infractions involving dishonesty or a threat to the health and/or welfare of the student or others.

With regard to a student being dismissed from Proctor Academy, beginning with the day the student was dismissed, the student will be given 14 days to communicate with the college(s) the circumstances leading to the dismissal. At the end of the 14-day grace period, the Director of College Counseling will notify colleges in writing that the student’s status has changed. Only the most pertinent information is communicated, and the college admission personnel are encouraged to contact the student directly should additional information be required. This policy is in compliance with the National Association for College Admission Counseling’s Statement of Principles of Good Practice.
Technology Use
The use of Proctor Academy’s network services, including Internet access, telephone, and voicemail is a privilege not a right. Students must understand and abide by the Technology Use Contract set forth by Proctor Academy. Students must also understand that their failure to comply with the stated contract may result in loss of network privileges as well as more serious disciplinary and/or legal action.

Students should:
    • Only use technology in appropriate ways at appropriate times.
    • Accept responsibility for the use of their assigned accounts.
    • Never share the password of private accounts such as email, file storage, or online resources with anyone.
    • Not intentionally damage technology systems such as hardware, software, voice or data network devices, or cabling.
    • Not attempt to compromise system performance or security of Proctor Academy’s network or any other system or network by spreading computer viruses or hacking.
    • Assume responsibility for any damage caused to any device that is used.
    • Not deface the physical appearance of Proctor’s technology devices.
    • Not use technology to search for, generate, store or distribute files, music, photographs or other material to which the student does not have explicit rights.
    • Obey the rules of copyright.
    • Not access or distribute pornographic, illegal, inflammatory or other inappropriate materials.
    • Not use technology for any illegal activities.
    • Not attempt to gain access to any device, account or system that has not been authorized for use.
    • Never post anonymous or false information.
    • Never use a tunnel or Proxy server to circumvent Proctor’s network filter or firewall.
    • Not film or record others without their permission or post images or recordings of others online without their permission.
    • Use technology at Proctor Academy in a respectful manner in accordance with Proctor Academy’s Technology Use Contract and with the technology guidelines in the Student Handbook.

Students should understand:
    • Any unauthorized use of another person’s technology devices or software, passwords, accounts, files etc. may be considered theft and dealt with by the appropriate policies and regulations.
    • Giving out personal information on the Internet can be dangerous.
    • Hazing or harassing anyone at any time using technology will not be tolerated and will be dealt with by the Dean of Student Engagement and Accountability, the Harassment Committee and the Director of Technology.
Social Media Guidelines
Proctor supports and encourages the appropriate use of social media to connect and share with other people. Members of the school community represent Proctor; social media postings should reflect well on the individual and the school, and protect the privacy of others. What is inappropriate in public is inappropriate online; our online behavior should always be consistent with good citizenship and the school’s core values of honesty, respect, compassion, and responsibility. The school may intervene to guide a student whose postings fall short of these expectations. Poor citizenship in any form is also subject to the appropriate disciplinary response that may include probation, up to and including, dismissal from the School, and for adults may include probation or dismissal.

Interaction between adults and students on social media is strongly discouraged and adults should not allow students access to their personal media. Adults who are contacted by students on social media, for example about clarifying an assignment, should switch over to Proctor’s Gmail or Webex for exchange to continue any dialogue.
Faculty & Administrators

For up-to-date detailed school calendar, please visit: www.proctoracademy.org/calendar
Key:
* Dormitories closed to all boarding students
Proctor Academy
P.O. Box 500
204 Main Street
Andover, NH 03216-0500
phone: (603) 735-6000
fax: (603) 735-6300
admission@proctoracademy.org www.proctoracademy.org